Digest HTTP Header: Syntax, Directive, Examples - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The Digest HTTP Header contains a digest of the requested resource’s selected representation. Representations are various forms of a specific resource that may be returned in response to an HTTP request. For example, the same resource may be formatted in a specific media type such as XML or JSON, localized to a specific written language or geographical region, and compressed or otherwise encoded for transmission. As part of a grammar document’s XML declaration on the first line, the XML header specifies the XML version number and, optionally, the character encodings. The JSON object offers methods for processing and converting values to JavaScript Object Notation (JSON). The selected representation is the actual format of a resource that is returned during content negotiation, as indicated by the headers Representation in the response. In HTTP, content negotiation is the mechanism for sending multiple representations of a resource to the same URI in order to assist the user agent in determining the representation that is most appropriate for the user. The digest refers to the entirety of a resource’s representation, not to a single message. It is useful for ensuring that the representation data was not altered during transmission. There are multiple values using the Digest HTTP Header. The values using the Digest HTTP Header are digest-algorithm and digest-value. An example of a Digest HTTP Header is written below.
Digest: sha-512=\vdtholisticseo8nOJRJH6OWUDBPE=, unixsum=69
The Digest HTTP Header Response Header is seen above. In the article, the Digest HTTP Header Syntax, Directives, and Uses examples will be processed.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What is Digest HTTP Header?
1.1.
What is the Syntax of Digest HTTP Header?
1.2.
What are the Directives of Digest HTTP Header?
2.
How to use Digest HTTP Header?
2.1.
Examples of Digest HTTP Header Use
3.
What is the Specification Document for Digest HTTP Header?
4.
What are the types of Digest HTTP Header?
4.1.
What are the similar HTTP Headers to the Digest HTTP Header?
5.
Which Browsers Support Digest HTTP Header?
What is Digest HTTP Header?
The Digest HTTP header is a response HTTP header that contains a small value created by a hash function from the entirety of the message. The Digest HTTP header is a response header that contains a hash of the resource that was requested. The Digest HTTP Header is calculated using the complete representation. Multiple digest values are conceivable for a single resource, as the representation is determined by the Content-Type and Content-Encoding.
What is the Syntax of Digest HTTP Header?
The Digest HTTP Header has multiple values in its syntax. The syntax using the Digest HTTP Header is written below.
Digest: <digest-algorithm>=<digest-value>
Digest: <digest-algorithm>=<digest-value>,<digest-algorithm>=<digest-value>
What are the Directives of Digest HTTP Header?
The Digest HTTP Header has multiple directives. The directives used for the Digest HTTP Header are listed below.
<digest-algorithm>
It includes a list of supported algorithms, such as SHA-256 and SHA-512.
<digest-value>
It contains the outcome of encoding and digesting the resource representation.
An example directive for using the Digest HTTP Header is written below.
Digest: sha-256=X48E9qOokqqrvdts8nOJRJN%OWDPoyWxBf7kbu9DBPE=
Digest: sha-256=X48E9qOokuqrvdts8nOJRJY3OWDUoyWxBf7obu9DBPE=,unixsum=30637
How to use Digest HTTP Header?
The Digest HTTP Header is used to provide a digest of the requested resource’s chosen representation. For example, the same resource could be formatted in XML or JSON, localized to the written language of a given region, and/or encoded for transmission in one of a variety of formats. After content negotiation, the response’s Representation headers reveal the resource’s actual format, which is the representation that was chosen. Not a specific message, but the entire representation of a resource is what the Digest HTTP Header is meant to cover. To ensure that the representation data has not been altered during transmission, it should be employed.
Examples of Digest HTTP Header Use
The following is an example of how to use the DNT HTTP Header.
The “sha-256” algorithm and the digest value, for example, are both provided.
Digest: sha-256=nOJRJholisticseoN3OWDUo9DBPE=
For example, the “sha-512” method and the digest value are both provided. The UNIX sum algorithm, which leads to collisions, is provided as an option.
Digest: sha-512=\vdtholisticseo8nOJRJN3OWDDBPE=, unixsum=69
What is the Specification Document for Digest HTTP Header?
There is only one specification for the Digest HTTP Header which is the Digest Header. The Digest HTTP Header Section 3 mentioned the definition and applications. The section includes examples and values for the Digest HTTP Header.
What are the types of Digest HTTP Header?
The Digest HTTP Header Types are listed below.
The Digest HTTP Header is a Response Header that provides a digest of the requested resource’s selected representation.
The Digest HTTP Header is a Representation Header containing information about the resource’s body, such as the MIME type or encoding/compression used.
What are the similar HTTP Headers to the Digest HTTP Header?
There are other similar HTTP to the Digest HTTP Header. The examples are listed below.
Want-Digest HTTP Header:
The Want-Digest HTTP header is most commonly used in an HTTP request to request that the server provide a digest of the requested resource using the Digest response header. The Want-Digest HTTP Header is similar to the Digest HTTP Header in that it provides a digest.
HTTP Range Request:
An HTTP Range Request instructs the server to return only a portion of an HTTP message to the client. Clients that support random access, data tools that know they only need a portion of a large file, and download managers that allow the user to pause and resume the download can all benefit from range requests. The Digest HTTP Header is similar to this HTTP Header in that it is also a representation header type.
206 Partial Content:
The HTTP 206 Partial Content success status code indicates that the request was successful and that the body contains the requested data ranges. It is described in the Range header of the request, which is similar to the Digest HTTP Header that selects the representation of the request.
Which Browsers Support Digest HTTP Header?
The compatibility of browsers for the Digest HTTP Header is not stated in any of the official web browser documentation.
Author
Recent Posts
Follow SEO
Holistic SEO
SEO Research Department
at
Holistic SEO & Digital
Holistic SEO & Digital has been built by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR. Holistic SEO is the process of developing integrated digital marketing projects with every aspect including Coding, Natural Language Processing, Data Science, Page Speed, Digital Analytics, Content Marketing, Technical SEO, and Branding. Structured, Semantic Search Engine improves its ability to detect the real-world entities, today. Having a simple website is not enough anymore. To show that your brand is authoritative, trustworthy, and expert on its own niche, you need entity-based Search Engine Optimization Projects. Holistic SEO & Digital's main focus is on improving the brand's organic visibility and growth potential.
Follow SEO
Latest posts by Holistic SEO
(
see all
)
48 Online Shopping and Consumer Behavior Statistics, Facts and Trends
- August 22, 2023
B2B Marketing Statistics
- August 22, 2023
38 Podcast Statistics, Facts, and Trends
- August 22, 2023
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
TechSEO
Digest HTTP Header: Syntax, Directive, Examples
by Holistic SEO
time to read: 4 min
TechSEO
DPR HTTP Header: Syntax, Directive, Examples
TechSEO
Device-Memory HTTP Header: Syntax, Directive, Exam…
0
0
0