Importance of Entity, Attribute, Value (EAV) Architecture for SEO: Choosing the Right Attributes with Accurate Values from Text - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The entity, Attribute, Value (EAV) Architecture for SEO involves different types of entities, their attributes, and values within the data model to encode a space-efficient knowledge base. Knowledge representation includes different types of methodologies such as semantic networks, frames, and production rules. The entity, Attribute, Value (EAV) model is to provide a better knowledge representation for different topics and applications. EAV is called an object-attribute-value model, a vertical database, and lastly, an “open schema”.
Choosing the right attributes with accurate values from text involves different types of attribute prioritization to provide better contextual relevance, and to specify for the search engine. Deciding the right attributes, or prominent-popular-relevant attributes, for question generation and answer pairing helps a search engine process the text and meaning that can come from content.
In this SEO Case Study, attribute types, and their prominence for providing a better semantic content network, along with context flow, are explained via a real-world SEO success that comes from a training and “document template” creation based on the “query-intent” templates.
Below, you can see the result and where the training actually starts.
The Google Search Console results and the “acceleration” can be seen.
The Google Analytics graphic is below.
In six months, over 250% of organic traffic has increased. The daily 4000 clicks increased to over 10000. It is important because the training increased the website’s overall traffic, rankability, and information value despite the fact that the website already has a decent value for the search engine and the existing industry. Due to respect, I won’t explain the industry name or the client name, but a website that dominates its own niche increases its traffic by more than 250% in a half year. It happens if a website operator is able to communicate with the search engine, and feeds the search engine algorithms with the data that tells the website to decrease the “cost of retrieval,”  increase the “contextual relevance,”  and use better “semantic content networks” to provide “topical authority.”
Every website has a better “rankability” possibility in the “comparative ranking algorithms.” The initial and re-ranking algorithms of Google can be analyzed, and provide further potential for any website. Below, you will find pictures of
Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR
Dean Scaduto and Kevin Farrugia.
The Query-Document-Intent templates are processed heavily already; thus, I won’t focus on them further. And, at the moment, I am writing a book about how search engines generate questions from queries and how they are able to choose different answers for these questions based on certain selection criteria. So, you should know that I’ve made an algorithmic authorship template, a topical map, and a semantic content network design for this education. I didn’t mention the “algorithmic authorship template” before. However, every verb, noun, phrase pattern, answer, answer type, format, or any kind of list, table, information graph, and content are designed before—literally, letter by letter, sentence by sentence. And, over an algorithmic authorship template, the main author, Kevin Farrugia has been trained, and how the fundamental template should be implemented by others is explained and practiced.
A memoir after the training sessions.
In 7 days, and 20+ hours, a semantic content network, topical map, and algorithmic authorship template have been created, and the writing sessions, search engines’ preferences, text processing methods, query-document clustering, and matching methodologies are explained.
A memoir after Semantic SEO Training.
Before continuing further, I must thank Dean Scaduto for his excellent friendship, and honesty. In the “Importance of Definitions for SEO” SEO Case Study, I have included these results and Dean Scaduto and Kevin Farrugia with special thanks, and I have hidden their data, website name, or other things (topical map, content item briefs, and more) while sharing the K9Web sessions, semantic content network design, and even the algorithmic authorship templates, including the VSSMonitoring.com as well.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What is Algorithmic Authorship?
1.1.
What is an Algorithmic Authorship Template?
1.1.1.
Can two different Algorithmic Authorship Templates be configured to rank accordingly?
2.
What is Content Configuration?
3.
What is the Entity, Attribute, Value (EAV) Architecture
4.
Key Attributes for Entities
4.1.
Value Set for Attributes
4.2.
Neural Matching and EAV Model
4.3.
Examples of Entity, Attribute, Value Models
4.4.
A Brief History of the EAV Model
4.5.
Metadata and Logical Schema for EAV
4.6.
Metadata Types
4.7.
EAV and JSON Usage
4.7.1.
Row Modelling and EAV
4.8.
EAV and UIMA
4.9.
Attribute Types and Dimensions for Semantic Content Network Designs
4.10.
Attributes and EAV Connections
5.
Last Thoughts on Entity, Attribute, Value Model, and Attribute Filtering for SEO
What is Algorithmic Authorship?
Algorithmic authorship involves writing methods, rules, sentence structures, paragraph structures, bridge words, discourse integration configuration, and connections between different questions and their subordinate texts. The goal of algorithmic authorship is to provide a strict writing style for certain stylometry, speed up the production of content without lowering its quality, and increase the value of content.
Algorithmic authorship is used in programming for Natural Language Generation, but most of the time, the AI uses certain attention windows for certain word distributions. Distributional Semantics is able to find all the possible word sequences to determine the real author. The article on
Google Author Rank
is the best comprehensive research to explain how a search engine can classify and evaluate the main content creator. Thus, in this context, the algorithmic authorship provides an authentic main content creator while helping the semantic content network have a better evaluation and association process with the help of an easy-to-parse text structure. Visuals and other types of content types are provided within algorithmic authorship as well.
Algorithmic Authorship is used to determine certain types of content creation flows, and rule sets to help the authors while training them.
Google Author Rank Research demonstrates the importance of the Expression of Author Identities, and Author Vectors for Author Authority. Algorithmic Authorship helps SEOs to create authoritative and accurate quality information with brand signals and unique expertise proof in an NLP-proven way.
What is an Algorithmic Authorship Template?
An algorithmic authorship template is the process of the creation of an article template based on algorithmic writing rule sets. An article can be written based on certain types of attribute selections, and attribute hierarchies. Certain types of queries require certain types of phrases to be used, or certain types of sentence structures to be used. The algorithmic authorship template involves an article template based on a content item brief template. A content item brief involves all the context vectors, structure, hierarchy, and connections for covering a topic based on Semantic SEO. A content item brief template involves other content item briefs’ overall fundamental structure and rule sets. An algorithmic authorship template is created based on the content item brief template. An algorithmic authorship template is an article with all the possible sentences, tables, lists, paragraphs, or even table columns, row names, table heads, table footers, table outros, list definitions, exact matching answers, direct answers, comparison superlative usage, and more. The entire algorithmic authorship template involves all the headings and other types of SEO-related article skeletons.
An algorithmic authorship template is integrated into the next content item brief that has been generated based on the content item template. An algorithmic authorship template doesn’t have to include all the actual values or the sentence structures, but it has to involve all the variables and complete sentence suggestions. The rule set of the algorithmic authorship template has to include modifications, and further improvements based on the other entities and their unique, and rare attributes.
To create a successful algorithmic authorship template, the semantic content network, and the central entity along with the main entities should be processed properly and carefully. The concepts of central entities, main entities, and attribute dimensions are explained in the Semantic SEO Course initials. But, here we will focus on mainly the attributes. An algorithmic authorship template is a must to understand how to configure and balance the relevance of certain things.
A document hosted on a website of a domain is accessed, where the document includes an authorship identifier asserting authorship of the document by an entity. Authorship of the document by the entity is conditionally confirmed when a profile for the entity is associated with the authorship identifier and when the profile for the entity indicates that the entity has confirmed that the authorship identifier is included in documents authored by the entity that are hosted on the first website of the first domain. – System and method for confirming authorship of documents (Othar Hansson)
Can two different Algorithmic Authorship Templates be configured to rank accordingly?
Yes, algorithmic authorship templates can be configured and arranged based on certain criteria. In the Cost-of-retrieval SEO Case Study, I have demonstrated a sample for “Source Shadowing”. Source Shadowing is the process of one source shadowing another one in terms of rankings. Both websites react to the algorithmic updates in the same direction, but the representative source always benefits it further, and the second, or third (shadowed sources) always follow the representative one by supporting it further. In the Exact Match Domain SEO Case Study, the “Comparison for Exact Match Domains” section explains this. In
Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR’s YouTube Channel
, the “Can a Search Engine make a mistake” video, explains the source shadowing with real-world and open Google Search Console data. In the Cost-of-retrieval and, How does Google ranks SEO Case Studies, the “source shadowing” is explained further.
The two semantically configured algorithmic authorship templates can be configured differently to be ranked differently, too. In other words, a good semantic SEO will be able to determine which article structure will rank how and for which queries and how the authority gained from these queries will be distributed. It is the ability to specify a seed source criterion and a website representation vector. Website representation vectors are explained further in the Google Author Rank and Topical Authority Long SEO Case Study articles. An algorithmic authorship template determines the contextual consolidation, and depth based on the specifically chosen entity-attribute-value model, and semantic network structure.
Semantic Content Networks SEO Case Study Article.
The Contextual Search SEO Case Study explains this process further with the help of specifically created questions, and answers, and how they increase the query count, and the rankings overall. The two different algorithmic authorship templates can be configured, and modified to balance the “authenticity” of the semantic network and provide uniqueness for the source’s information content. Changing the sentence structures, decreasing the contextual coverage, and removing certain verbs, and phrase patterns can change the overall success and ranking process of the content networks. The verbs and phrase patterns can be understood further in the article “
Understanding the Verbs from Life
,” which focuses on the semantic role labels, FrameNet, and word themes.
The article “semantic content networks and entity relationships” explains how to choose entity connections properly, and how to create possible semantic networks over a knowledge base. As a result, an algorithmic authorship template can be configured to support various parts of the query network from the perspective of the knowledge base.
Note: Dean Scaduto wanted to create a second website by using a similar semantic network. He told me that he wants the second website to rank lower than the “mothership website,”  and I configured the semantic content network, and the topical map, along with the algorithmic authorship template, based on this request. I can share the results in the future if he lets me.
The configuration process of semantic content networks and the algorithmic authorship template are relevant to the “corroboration of answers from the open web.”  It will be processed in the book that is coming, and also in the Semantic SEO Course, where it has already been processed in every detail.
A system and method for identifying and predicting subjective attributes for entities (e.g., media clips, movies, television shows, images, newspaper articles, blog entries, persons, organizations, commercial businesses, etc.) are disclosed. In one aspect, subjective attributes for a first media item are identified based on a reaction to the first media item, and relevancy scores for the subjective attributes with respect to the first media item are determined. A classifier is trained using (i) a training input comprising a set of features for the first media item, and a target output for the training input, the target output comprising the respective relevancy scores for the subjective attributes with respect to the first media item. – Identifying subjective attributes by analysis of curation

[...truncated...]