Domain Name: What is a Domain Name? - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
An Internet address or domain name is the equivalent of your mailing address on the Internet. It’s how your contacts and customers will find your website on the web. A domain name is therefore essential when creating a website. An Internet address consists of a “www” (world wide web) prefix and a domain name. This domain name is itself composed of a character string and an extension (TLD – Top Level Domain).
Below, you one will see an example of a domain name.
www.example.com
In this domain name example, the “www” part means the World Wide Web. “com” is the Top Level Domain (TLD) part. In between, “example” is the part of the domain name that is specific to the website.
The main part of the Uniform Resource Locator (URL) is the domain name. This indicates where a resource can be found within the Domain Name System (DNS). The conversion of domain names to an IP Address is handled by the Domain Name System. Every website has a Domain Name and an IP Address. The name of the website, the IP Address is unique to it. In the Domain Name System, a domain is presented to the user on the Web Server by finding an equivalent IP Address. This process resembles a telephone address book. You cannot remember the numbers of people even if you remember their names. When you search for the person’s name on your phone, you are also looking for their phone number. Likewise, when you enter the Domain Name in the address bar of the browser, after the DNS Lookup and DNS Reverse Lookup processes, a request is made to the IP Address.
Each web server is identified by an
IP Address
. IP Addresses are divided into IPv4 and IPv6. Human users often do not see these numbers. A sample IP Address is below.
192.125.211.23.
Since it is difficult to remember such a number and it is also difficult to write it in the same way, an alhpanumeric method was created.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What are the parts of a domain name?
1.1.
Root Label Part of Fully Qualified Domain Name
1.2.
Top-level Domain (TLD) Part of the Fully Qualified Domain Name
1.3.
Second Level Domain (SLD) of the Fully Qualified Domain Name
1.4.
Third Level Domain Part of the Fully Qualified Domain Name
1.5.
Country-code Top-Level Domain Part of the Fully Qualified Domain Name
1.5.1.
Characteristics of ccTLDs
1.6.
Sponsored Top Level Domain (sTLD) Part of the Fully Qualified Domain Name
2.
How Does a Domain Work?
3.
Who is Responsible for the Domain Name System?
4.
How to Choose a Domain Name?
5.
How to Sell a Domain Name?
6.
Can I Move My Website to a Different Domain Name?
7.
What is Domain Privacy? Do You Need Domain Privacy?
8.
Can I Buy More Than One Domain?
9.
Can I Cancel My Registration of a Domain Name?
10.
What is the Difference Between a Domain, Hosting, and Website?
11.
What is a Subdomain?
12.
Last Thoughts on Domain and Holistic SEO
What are the parts of a domain name?
Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) refers to the exact location of a domain within the DNS System. FQDN consists of two parts. Below is an example of an FQDN.
mailserver.example.com.
The “mail-server” section refers to the hostname. The “Eample.com” section shows the domain under which the hostname is. Thanks to the domain name, it connects to the computer containing the IP Address and then the webserver. Thus, the contents, transactions, and assets related to the “mail-server” are requested from the webserver by the user. “www” is often used as a hostname for domain names.
www.example.com.
Root Label is the last section for Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN). FQDN is always a “.” ends with. This last point is not used during internet use in everyday life. The last point, the Root Label, indicates that internet addresses are always in a hierarchy and are a breakdown to the very end.
Third level domain
Second level domain
Top-level domain
Root label
www
.example
.com
(empty)
Structure of a Domain
Sağdan sola doğru, bir FQDN şunlardan oluşur:
Root-label,
Top-level Domain (TLD)
Second Level Domain (SLD)
Third-level Domain,
In theory, “www.example.com” is equivalent of the “www.example.com.”.
Root Label Part of Fully Qualified Domain Name
The first step of the FQDN is the “root label”. In some sources, Root Label is also called “Null Label”. Often, Root Label is not used in daily internet life and is left blank. However, in any case, it can be used if desired.
Root Label is a useful concept for understanding the Domain Name System Root-tree structure.
“www.holisticseo.digital.” is the FQDN version of the “www.holisticseo.digital”.
Top-level Domain (TLD) Part of the Fully Qualified Domain Name
The top point of Name Resolution is the Top-Level Domain. The main reason for this is that the Root Domain or Root Label of Domain is not used mostly in internet usage. Top Level Domains (TLDs) are operated by the Network Information Centers (NIC). Network Information Centers (NIC) include name servers, recording of the second-level domains that are under the Top Level Domains. Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) is a sub-organization that works under the Internet Cooperation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN). IANA makes a distinction between two different Top-level Domains such as Country-code Top Level Domains and Generic Top-level Domains. “.info”, “.com”, “.net” or “.org” are the Generic Top Level Domains while the “.de”, “.tr”, “.uk”, “.us” are the Country- code Top Level Domains.
Also, there are Sponsored Top Level Domains such as “.edu”, “.mil”, “.gov”. Sponsored Top Level Domains are sponsored by the state cooperations or governmental institutions. Country-code Top-Level Domains and Sponsored Top Level Domains are can be used with certain conditions. To use a Country-code Top Level Domains, having a residenecy, citizenship and some other official documents are necessary. To use a Sponsored Top Level Domains, being a govermental, educational or state cooperation is necessary.
Top Level Domains exist at the end of the domain, that’s why they are called “domain ending”. In Holistic SEO & Digital, the “.digital” is the Top Level Domain. To perform the registration for certain Country-code Top Level Domains, there are special Network Information Centers for some countries.
Some of the top level domains.
Second Level Domain (SLD) of the Fully Qualified Domain Name
The most generic and unique part of the domain is the Second Level Domain (SLD). Second Level Domain or the Actual Name of the Domain are also brand names. In “www.holisticseo.digital” address, the “holisticseo” is the Second-Level Domain.
A Second Level Domain is always under a Top-Level Domain. A Private Domain Name Registrar that works with the permission of related Network Information Center (NIC) can sell the Second Level Domain to persons.
Third Level Domain Part of the Fully Qualified Domain Name
Third Level Domains are actually the sub-addresses of a domain. Third Level Domain is a separate, distinct section of the web site. Most of the Third Level Domains are also “subdomains” but the “subdomain” term is also being used for the marketing terminology. For instance, “mailserver.example.com” is actually the “subdomain” of the “example.com”. But, it is only being used for the “emailing” activities under that domain address. In this context, this subdomain is not related to the “generic marketing strategy”.
Third Level Domains have a distinc category profile such as different landing pages, services, servers.
The common names used for the Third-Level Domains are “m” for mobile servers, “mail”, IMAP or “pop3” for the mail servers, country codes for local versions of the same web site.
Below, you will see Third-Level Domain Variations for the Wikipedia.
Third level domain
Second level domain
Top-level domain
The special path on the server
fr
wikipedia
org
/wiki/Main_Page
tr
wikipedia
org
/wiki/Anasayfa
Wikipedia’s Third Level Domain Structure
Every different language version of Wikipedia serves the equivalent versions of the same web pages. But, also in this example, there is a unique side. Every different language version of the same web page under Wikipedia is also being written by different writers with different sources, attributions, and angles. In this context, we can’t call these “Third-Level Domains” as symmetric equivalents.
But, in most examples, Third-Level Domains are also being used with “hreflang attributes” for showing that the web pages from different languages are symmetric equivalents of each other.
Third-level domains are often referred to as “subdomains”. Strictly speaking, however, this term cannot be restricted to third-level domains.
How does a subdomain work?
Country-code Top-Level Domain Part of the Fully Qualified Domain Name
The end of a web address consists of a Top-Level Domain. Country Code Top Level Domains are the last part of web addresses specific to a particular country. In addition, there are Country-code Top-Level Domains specific to a specific region, even if not a country. For example, “.eu” is an example of Country-code Top Level Domain (ccTLD) for the European Union. “.asia” is for the Pacific Region and Asia. “.tr” is an example of ccTLD for Turkey. Which ccTLD will belong to which region is determined entirely by the Internet Cooperation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN). Registration of different domain names under ccTLD is managed by the relevant Network Information Center (NIC).
Commercial activities performed to register different domain names under ccTLD are managed by end-user and Domain Name Registrator. Domain Name Registration gets operating permission from the relevant Network Information Center. In total, there are over 200 ccTLD instances. Some countries have country-specific Network Information Centers for ccTLD registration. For example, only “DENIC” can be used for Germany.
To learn more about
Country-code Top Level Domain
, you can read our related guideline.
Characteristics of ccTLDs
Country-specific domain endings usually refer to the region or language area to which the content of an online presence is directed. Country-specific top-level domains always consist of two letters from the Latin alphabet.
Country-specific Domainler veya Country-code Top Level Domainler her zaman Latin Alfabesinden iki harften oluşur. Farklı bir dil, bir ülke veya bir bölge için ccTLD’ler mevcuttur.
Latin Alfabesi ile başlamayan veya sadece Latin Alfabesinden iki harf içermeyen ccTLD örnekleri mevcuttur. Az sayıdaki bu örnek, IDN-ccTLD olarak çağrılır. IDN-ccTLD or Internationalized Country Code Top Level Domains exist in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka has “lk” as its cc-TLD but also it has “.ලංකා/.இலங்கை” ccTLDs that are special to the island nations in Sinhala and Tamil languages.
Sponsored Top Level Domain (sTLD) Part of the Fully Qualified Domain Name
Sponsored Top-Level Domains are being used for special communities, institutions, and corporations. Usually, Sponsored Top Level Domain (sTLD) is used by governmental or state institutions or educational organizations such as universities, military institutions, and state cooperations. “.edu” for universities, “.gov” for government institutions or “.mil” for U.S Military institutions are being used as Sponsored Top Level Domains. “.asia” domain extension is a Sponsored Top-level Domain while it is also a “Country-code Top Level Domain”. Because “.asia” is only for a region while it is being sponsored by “DotAsia Organization”.
How Does a Domain Work?
A Domain Name work through Domain Name System (DNS). When the one enters a domain name into the browser’s address bar, the browser requests the web site from the Domain Name Server that stores the Domain. A Domain Name Server works in a Domain Name System. You may see an example of a domain name server from Namecheap Hosting Provider.
ns1.namecheap.com
ns2.namecheap.com
Below, you will also sea an example of Domain Name Server from the BlueHost Hosting Provider.
ns1.bluehost.com
ns2.bluehost.com
Usually, hosting providers provide two different name servers for a website in case of one of the name servers do not work, so that the one can access the web site.
All of these name servers are actually computers that run a program in the server such as Apache or Nginx. Apache and Nginx are the programs that are popular in the web servers. When the user enters the domain name into the browsers’ address bar, the browser requests the web site from the Domain Name Server and Web Server. Domain Name Server serves the web site through these types of server programs to the user through the domain name.
For SEO,
Domain Name System (DNS) Lookup
is an important term. You also may read,
how to perform DNS Reverse Lookup via Python Guideline
.
Who is Responsible for the Domain Name System?
The acronym ICANN stands for Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) was founded in 1998 by an amalgamation of different interest groups – in addition to business, technology, and science, users were already on board back then. ICANN forms a kind of superstructure for the previously responsible IANA (Internet Assigned Numbers Authority), which had worked on behalf of the US government. The IANA remained as a subgroup of ICANN and is still directly subordinate to the US Department of Commerce.
The foundation was based on a proposal by the US Department of Commerce to found a new non-profit organization to administer the system of Internet names and addresses and to take over the technical management of the domain name system.
With ICANN, now based in Los Angeles, a non-profit organization was finally created that sets the rules for a significant part of the Internet. Contrary to what many people think, ICANN is not an international organization formed by states, but a private foundation subject to California law.
How to Choose a Domain Name?
Before you get a domain , you should consider a few points. Otherwise you could incur higher costs or unknowingly commit a crime.
In princ

[...truncated...]
