Multilingual SEO Guide and Case Study with 425% Organic Growth in 6 Months - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
Multilingual and Multiregional SEO Guide will be told over a concrete SEO Success Case Study and example with 41 different languages, and countries in the context of international SEO. ForexSuggest.com is the subject of the Multilingual SEO Case Study. During the Multilingual and Multiregional SEO Case Study, nearly a new content is not being published, but all the different regional and language sections of the website (source) are synchronized and semanticized with each other with the help of internal links and hreflang tag.
The general change for the ForexSuggest.com SEO Case Study for the last 6 months can be found above. During the Multilingual SEO Case Study, also new content has been continued to be published. The Multilingual SEO Case Study has 41 Different Languages and Language Sections that increase the International SEO understanding need.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What is Multilingual SEO?
2.
What is the Difference between Multilingual SEO and Multiregional SEO?
3.
How to Unite Multilingual and Multiregional SEO Efforts?
3.1.
What is the Background of Multilingual SEO Case Study Website?
3.2.
How to Prioritize the SEO Tasks for International SEO?
3.2.1.
What is the Broad Appeal for International SEO?
3.2.1.1.
An Example for Broad Appeal in Term of International SEO
3.2.2.
What is Historical Data for International SEO?
3.2.3.
Example of Usage of Historical Data for Multilingual Websites by Search Engines
3.3.
What are the Four Main Principles of International SEO?
3.4.
What is the Canonical Version of a Multilingual and Multiregional Website?
3.5.
How to Perform Query Research for Different Languages and Regions for Multilingual and Regional SEO?
3.6.
What is Inorganic Site Structure for Multilingual Websites?
3.7.
What is the Importance of Consistent Design and Topicality for a Multilingual Website in terms of Users and Trust?
3.8.
What is the Importance of Symmetry for a Multilingual and Multiregional Website?
3.8.1.
Importance of Symmetry for a Multilingual and Multiregional Website in the context of Topical Authority
3.8.2.
Different Effects of Canonical and Alternate Versions for a Multilingual and Multiregional Site
3.9.
International Targeting for Multilingual and Multiregional SEO
3.10.
How to Use International Targeting for Multilingual Sites SEO?
4.
What are the Mistakes for SEO for Multilingual Sites?
5.
How to Use Multiple Websites at the Same Time for Multilingual SEO?
6.
How to Use Multiple Subdomains for Multilingual SEO?
7.
Subdomains vs Subfolders for Multilingual SEO
8.
Benefits of Using Subfolders for Multilingual SEO
8.1.
What are the Advantages of Multilingual Sites for Search Engines?
9.
Understanding the Advantage of Multilingual Sites for SEO and Search Engines
9.1.
What is Language and Region-Based Authority for a Website?
9.2.
How to Audit Authority of a Website for Multilingual SEO?
10.
What is Audience Diversification for a Search Engine?
11.
What are Regional and International References for a Search Engine?
12.
Why is Multilingual Search Crucial for a Contextual Search Engine?
13.
How Does Hreflang Can Share PageRank and Relevance Across Alternates?
13.1.
How to Use Hreflang for Multilingual and Regional Websites?
14.
What is the Quality Score Assignment Effect of Alternate Versions?
14.1.
Importance of Full Translation and Localization for Multilingual Sites
15.
What is Query Expansion for a Search Engine in the Context of Multilingual SEO?
16.
What is the Connection between Multilingual and Semantic SEO?
17.
How Does Multilingual SEO Affect Named Entity Recognition?
18.
How Does Multilingual SEO Affect Topical Authority of a Website?
19.
What is the Importance of Design and Internal Link Consistency for Multilingual SEO?
19.1.
Importance of Link Flow for Multilingual Websites
19.2.
Importance of Content Publication Frequency and Size for Multilingual Websites
20.
What is the Importance of Content Similarity and Comprehensiveness Across Different Languages for Multilingual SEO?
21.
What is the Importance of Language Change Transition for Multilingual SEO?
22.
What is the Importance of External and Internal Anchor Texts (Link Text) Across Different Languages for Multilingual SEO?
23.
What is the Importance of Diversified External References and Mentions for Multilingual SEO?
24.
What is the Importance of Regional and Language-Based Symmetry for a Website in terms of Multilingual SEO?
25.
What is the Importance of Multilingual Social Media for Multilingual SEO?
26.
What is the Importance of Multilingual Schema Markup Consistency for Multilingual SEO?
27.
What is the Importance of Sitemaps and Sitemap Hreflang for Multilingual SEO?
27.1.
Benefits of Multiple Sitemaps for Multilingual SEO
28.
Benefits of Having Multiple Google Search Console Accounts for Multilingual and International SEO
29.
What is the Effect of Hreflangs within Response Headers for Multilingual SEO?
30.
What is the Effect of Missing Hreflang Tags for Multilingual SEO?
31.
What is the Importance of Crawl Efficiency for Multilingual SEO?
32.
What is the Effect of Clear HTML Structure for Multilingual SEO?
33.
What is the Importance of Local Servers, and CDN Servers for Multilingual SEO?
34.
What is the Importance of Authors, Publishers, or Brand Names for Multilingual SEO?
35.
What are the Patents of Google for Hreflangs and Multilingual SEO?
36.
Last Thoughts on Multilingual SEO and Holistic SEO
36.1.
What is the Relation Between Multilingual (International) SEO and Semantic SEO?
36.2.
What is the Relation Between Multilingual (International) SEO and Local SEO?
36.3.
What is the Relation Between International (Multilingual) SEO and Image SEO?
36.4.
What is the Relation Between International (Multilingual) SEO and Technical SEO?
What is Multilingual SEO?
Multilingual SEO is the process of optimizing a website, or web entity for multiple languages in the context of Search Engine Optimization. Multilingual SEO and Multiregional SEO are connected to each other. Multilingual SEO is beneficial to acquire visibility across different languages and increase organic traffic for different countries, and cultures. Search Engines such as Google, Bing, Yandex, and Baidu can improve and use different ranking and indexing algorithms to understand the content for different languages. Since a multilingual website can satisfy queries in different languages for the same concepts and search purposes, it may naturally have more topical authority, and categorical quality, on certain topics.
Search Engines may attribute click satisfaction success in queries in one language to queries in other languages, as they have more historical data on multilingual websites. Multilingual SEO is also related to the web page loading performance since it is important to have a local server to decrease the Time to First Byte for the users’ requests.
SEO for a multilingual website (source) includes website layout changes, language used, author names, product descriptions, localization and customization of content, alphabetic transliteration, right to left and left to right spelling, User Experiences such as symbol and number differences, Website topics along with multilingual content optimization.
This is the country-based traffic change situation of ForexRecommend.com. As you can see, the site is located in South Africa, and even if the search demand is higher for other areas, Google prefers it mainly for the main location of the website.
What is the Difference between Multilingual SEO and Multiregional SEO?
The difference between Multilingual SEO and Multiregional SEO is that multilingual SEO is the act of optimizing a source (website) for different languages, while multiregional SEO is for optimizing a source for only different regions. To elaborate on the difference between multilingual and multiregional SEO, you can check the examples below.
A source with Arabic, English, and Turkish languages for its content can be a target for Multilingual SEO.
A source with English for different countries such as New Zealand, the United States, or Canada can be a target for Multiregional SEO.
International and multinational companies need Multiregional and Multilingual SEO at the same time. A Search Engine that can understand contextual search principles and patterns can reflect different results for the same concept, and intent from different languages, and geographies. Every user from a different region and language will have a different but similar intent for the same query. Thus, Multilingual and Multiregional SEO focus on contextual and localized search principles with the help of Technical SEO and Hreflang Tags.
With Google’s latest update for showing a link’s chosen reasons within a snippet for the SERP, language detection has an important place.
How to Unite Multilingual and Multiregional SEO Efforts?
To unite the Multilingual and Multiregional SEO, hreflang tags with different country codes within the format of ISO 639-1, and region code with ISO 3166-1 Alpha 2 format are used. With hreflang tags, a website can match its regional and language-based different versions with each other with the canonical version.
What is the Background of Multilingual SEO Case Study Website?
The general background of the multilingual SEO Case Study Website can be found below.
83% of the URLs have mixed signals in terms of indexing.
22,578 URLs are canonicalized.
30.000+ Internal Redirect (GSC Data is Partial).
18,948 “crawled currently not indexed” URLs which is a signal for quality issues.
2000+ internal 404 Error.
1000+ highly duplicated content web pages.
1500+ extremely thin content web pages.
2500+ pages are noindexed.
647 URLs are “discovered not indexed” which is a signal for technical and quality issues.
Hundreds of URLs are/were indexed despite robots.txt disallowing commands without any further information.
Hundreds of Soft 404 Pages
Thousands of 500x Errors
Hundreds of URLs within Sitemaps are marked as Noindex.
The tens of web pages in Sitemaps are 404.
Tens of web pages in Sitemaps are redirected.
Hundreds of web pages in sitemaps are soft 404.
60% web site are not in sitemaps.
Thousands of web pages have thousands of AMP Errors such as “URL is not AMP”, “Invalid URL Protocol”, and “Blank AMP Pages”.
Flawed Structured Data Examples
Only 1,2% of web pages have passed from Good Page Experience.
Nearly All Website has CLS, LCP, and FID Problems.
There are boilerplate links that are loaded with JavaScript.
All of the web-security-related response headers are missing.
More than 80% of the paginated URLs are flawed with +2 Paginated Pages.
Most of the time, it didn’t/don’t respond with the “www” version.
Having Internal Nofollow Links in the link circulation.
Having mixed content errors.
Having outdated JS Framework Libraries.
There are 1356+ JavaScript versioned files on the crawl path.
There are 1397+ CSS files on the crawl path.
800+ versioned unnecessary font files exist on the crawl path.
None of the images are compressed enough.
All URLs are not semantic between the different language versions. In other words, there are no strong URL Pattern Signals.
No HSTS Header for all of the websites.
1000+ Bad Content Type Content exists.
There is no URL Consolidation in terms of trailing slash.
There is no URL Consolidation in terms of upper-lowercase letters.
All website has a flawed Heading Structure.
There are color Contrast Issues, and web-accessibility harming implementations.
There are unnecessarily amount of GIFs with 500+ KB sizes.
Thousands of Structured Data Validation Errors.
Thousands of Structured Data Stuffing samples.
Fixing all these Technical SEO Errors would take months with even 20 people on the team. And, there are also content-related issues that include “non-matching content between alternate languages”, “asymmetrical language sections”, “different internal link paths”, “inconsistent design”, “half translated” or “nearly translated” alternate versions. Still, with all these errors and problems,
ForexSuggest.com
is able to win Two Broad Core Algorithm Updates, and overcome 5 unconfirmed big Google Updates, along with the Spam Update of Google during the summer.
When I check all these errors, I remembered
Izzi Smith
‘s GIF that explains SEOs’ feelings against lots of correlative SEO Errors.
Speaking of Spam, ForexSuggest.com is not lucky in terms of external references and backlinks too, because there are thousands of links with the same URL subpath, root domain, IP subnet, references with duplicate title, page layout, and design, references with the same Google Analytics or Google AdSense ID. 80% of the external reference network occurs from these types of spammy or shady links, and there is no disavow file for now. In this context, Google is able to detect the spammy link networks but no algorithm can be successful with a 100% success rate, esp. there are millions of variables. Since there was not enough workforce to fix all these issues,  I need to prioritize the workforce for the key points for international SEO based on the Search Engine Understanding.
How to Prioritize the SEO Tasks for International SEO?
To prioritize the SEO Tasks for international SEO, the most effective SEO Factors for international SEO should be understood from the point of view of search engines. Most of the time, since the multilingual websites are costly, larger, and hard to audit, managing the Technical SEO tasks will take more workforce. Creating a real organic search performance difference via fixing the technical SEO needs won’t be easy since it requires too much time. In terms of content, managing a content team for 41 different languages will be harder than usual. And, keeping the quality high won’t be easy either. Thus, an SEO should focus on the multilingual websites’ two different and effective advantages against the mono-lingual websites which are “broad appeal”

[...truncated...]
