B2B (Business to Business) Search Engine Optimization (SEO) Guide: Strategies and Case Studies - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
Business to Business (B2B) Search Engine Optimization (SEO) is organic search visibility increasing strategy to increase the revenue, conversions, brand value, and organic traffic on search engines such as Google, Yandex, Microsoft Bing, DuckDuckGo, and Yep. B2B SEO involves business analysis, and content marketing for key decision-makers such as CEOs, CMOs, and CFOs. Business to Business Search Engine Optimization helps small and big businesses to achieve their sales targets. B2B SEO focuses on industrial businesses as buyers and sellers to create revenue. B2B SEO is different from Business Consumer (B2C) SEO.
What is B2B SEO? B2B SEO is the optimization of Business Websites for better search rankings on Google, and Bing-like search engines. B2B SEO provides better business economics by increasing sales for industrial channels. B2B SEO has its own challenges such as low search demand for keywords, the requirement of expert authors, intense corporate communication, small and lesser-known markets, and the requirement of multilingual content for different countries. To exceed the B2B SEO challenges with B2B SEO Strategies, using various search engine optimization verticals such as Local, Technical, Semantics, and PageSpeed optimizations are required.
What are the facts about B2B SEO?
B2B SEO Strategies involve content marketing, writing, the keyword (search query term) research, topical map creation with semantic SEO, local SEO verticals, and Technical SEO.
B2B SEO with Content Marketing: Content marketing involves making content visible, shareable, and consumable by the targeted audience while answering the questions of the market.
B2B SEO with Technical SEO is to improve the crawling and indexing efficiency of the website for better and faster organic search results and search rankings.
B2B SEO with Local SEO is to provide better local relevance, explorability, and entity-oriented search reputation by optimizing the Brand SERP, further.
B2B SEO with Page Loading Performance Time Optimization is to improve conversion rates, and usability of the website for mobile, desktop, and portable web surfing devices such as handheld smartphones, and desktop computers.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does B2B SEO Guide focus on?
2.
What is B2B SEO?
2.1.
What are the Components of B2B SEO?
2.1.1.
1. What is Low Keyword Search Demand?
2.1.2.
2. Longer and more Complicated Sale and Conversion Funnels
2.1.3.
3. Low Conversion Rate
2.1.4.
4. Thought Leadership
2.1.5.
5. Legit Online Presence
2.1.6.
6. Years of Experience in Signals
2.1.7.
7. Trust Elements for Industry
2.1.8.
8. Digital Public Relations
2.1.9.
9. Certificates and Licenses for Industry
2.2.
What is the Difference between B2B and B2C SEO?
3.
What are B2B SEO Strategies?
3.1.
1. Analyze Buyer Personas for B2B SEO
3.2.
2. Determine a Target Audience
3.3.
3. Perform Topical Research for Higher Coverage
3.4.
4. Analyze Competitors’ Web Pages, and Anchor Texts
3.5.
5. Extract all the Knowledge Domain Concepts and Experts
3.6.
6. Determine a Content Production Guide for Expert Authors
3.7.
7. Design Conversion Funnels
3.8.
8. Determine Conversion Steps and Obstacles
3.9.
9. Determine Content Production Formats
3.10.
10. Perform Internal Linking and Anchor Text Optimization
3.11.
11. Audit Content Expertise and Accuracy of Information
3.12.
12. Improve Relevance, Accuracy, and Comprehensiveness Always on
3.13.
13. Analyze User-engagement and Feedback
3.14.
14. Use Omnichannel User Retention Practices
3.15.
15. Promote B2B Content for Digital PR
3.16.
16. Increase Page Speed and Crawling Efficiency for Users and Search Engines
3.17.
17. Increase the Historical Data of the Website by Staying Active with Higher User Satisfaction
3.18.
What are the Most Important Steps for B2B SEO Strategies?
4.
SEO Case Studies for B2B Industries
4.1.
B2B SEO Case Study for Heavy Metallurgy Industry
4.1.1.
Results of the B2B SEO Case Study for the Metallurgy Industry
4.1.2.
Using the Pages and Crawl Stats Reports of Google Search Console for B2B SEO
4.1.3.
Using Google Search Console Page Experience Report for B2B SEO
4.2.
B2B SEO Case Study for Pool Construction Industry
4.2.1.
The Results of B2B SEO Case Study in the Pool Construction Industry
4.2.2.
Analyzing Google Search Console Pages (Coverage) Report for B2B SEO
4.2.3.
The Indexed and Non-indexed pages analysis for B2B SEO involves the efficiency of the website for being understood and crawled to be indexed by the search engine. The visual expression of the analysis of the indexed and non-indexed URLs for the B2B SEO is below.
4.2.4.
Analyzing Google Search Console Page Experience Report B2B SEO
4.2.4.1.
Analyzing Google Search Console Page Experience Report B2B SEO
4.2.5.
Crawl Stats for the Pool Construction B2B SEO Case Study Project and their Analysis
4.3.
B2B SEO Case Study for Gift Production Industry
4.4.
Image Search Growth for B2B SEO Gift Industry Project
4.4.1.
Understanding B2B SEO with Google Search Console Crawl Stats
4.4.2.
Understanding B2B SEO with Google Search Console Core Web Vitals Scores
4.4.3.
Understanding B2B SEO with Google Search Console Crawled Resource, Crawler, and Crawling Types Reports
4.4.3.1.
Response Code Analysis from GSC Report for B2B SEO
5.
What B2B Companies should know about SEO?
5.1.
Why is SEO Important for B2B Marketing?
5.2.
What are the SEO Templates for B2B Market?
5.3.
What are the B2B SEO Best Practices?
6.
Last Thoughts on Holistic SEO and B2B SEO
What does B2B SEO Guide focus on?
The content of the B2B SEO Guideline is given below.
B2B SEO Guide involves B2B SEO Strategies.
B2B SEO Guide explains Content Marketing, Writing, and Publishing strategies that involve communication campaigns.
B2B SEO involves social media marketing and crowdsourcing for better brand visibility.
B2B SEO Guide involves a B2B SEO Case Study with over 100% Organic Click Increase
What is B2B SEO?
B2B SEO is to create an organic search conversion funnel according to the B2B customer’s search journey with long-term marketing strategies for ranking on search engines, primarily Google. B2B SEO involves conducting keyword research, creating a buyer persona, establishing expertise and authority for an industry with thought leadership, and comprehensive content marketing. B2B SEO best practices change according to the business industry. For example, SEO best practices for a business from the tourism industry changes compared to an enterprise for laser cutting. Large and small businesses need different B2B SEO Strategies. Thus, knowing the components of B2B SEO is important to create the best B2B SEO Strategy.
B2B SEO helps for eliminating the dependence on paid media while creating money pages that convert faster and better.
What is B2B SEO? A NASDAQ Business SEO Success Story.
What are the Components of B2B SEO?
Components of B2B SEO involve the B2B SEO practices and their requirements, such as having knowledge domain experts as authors, and including thought leadership in the branding process. The conditions for B2B SEO are required for the components of B2B SEO practices. The conditions and components of the B2B SEO are listed below.
Low Keyword Search Demand
Longer and more Complicated Sale and Conversion Funnels
Low Conversion Rate
Thought Leadership
Legit Online Presence
Years of Experience Signals
Trust Elements for Industry
Digital Public Relations
Certificates and Licenses for Industry
Semantic Content Network
1. What is Low Keyword Search Demand?
Low Keyword Search Demand or Volume means that the number of searches for a specific phrase is lower than normal searches. Low search demand makes search engine optimization more details by explaining knowledge domain concepts and industrial trade components for the business. B2B SEO involves low keyword search demand by making the conversion funnels more complicated. Thus, to improve brand awareness and have topical authority in B2B SEO, brands need to process different but connected concepts and topics. For example, for accounting software, the brand needs to process accounting concepts, and methods or types to show the expertise, and canalize the users to the conversions.
2. Longer and more Complicated Sale and Conversion Funnels
The Longer and more Complicated Sale and Conversion Funnels in B2B SEO involve harder predictions for search behaviors. The market segments in B2B marketing are smaller than in B2C, thus the individual nature and personality create the difference when giving key decisions. Thus, the B2B SEO has more complicated sale and conversion funnels. Conversion path and funnel involve different types of theories, such as the 3 Click Theory, which states that every click funnel shouldn’t be longer than 3 clicks. But in B2B SEO, many companies need different channels for conversions, such as phone calls, emails, or video calls. B2B SEO Companies and Agencies focus on industry sale channels by creating a higher-profile communication campaign that involves Digital PR, news and press releases, and events for the industry. Complex B2B Sales funnels for SEO requires creating multiple landing pages, and multiple conversion actions, better call to action that explains the needs of the business’s key decision-makers. To create a million dollars worth of purchases in B2B Marketing, multiple meetings are required.
Using fairs of industry, show-rooms, 3D, and Augmented Reality technologies in B2B Marketing and SEO is needed for higher conversion rates and to increase the chance of complicated sales funnels. Fairs show the expertise of the brand, and leveraging fairs in SEO, especially Barnacle SEO methodology, helps B2B SEOs to decrease the needed phone calls or video calls before the conversion.
3. Low Conversion Rate
Low Conversion Rate is a component of B2B SEO, as complicated conversion funnels and low keyword search volume. The low conversion rate in B2B Search Engine Optimization causes due to value per sale. Value per sale involves the amount of monetary value per successful conversion. The value per sale and conversion rate is in inverse proportion. Low Conversion Rate in B2B SEO is measured differently from “click-to-sale” and “click-to-inquiry”. The “click-to-inquiry” conversion rate is higher than the “click-to-sale” conversion rate. Usually, “click-to-inquiry” conversion rates change between 4-11% according to the business industry, and “click-to-sale” conversion rates are not over 1% in B2B SEO. To increase B2B Conversion Rate, branding, and conversion path analysis and tracking are needed.
4. Thought Leadership
Thought Leadership is expertise for a certain topic or area to demonstrate professionalism, success, and experience with unique value. Thought leadership is a way of marketing, and expressing of talents and dedication of the person. Thought leadership belongs to a person who has exponential growth and success in an industry. Thought leadership in B2B SEO helps for boosting industry presence while building brand awareness faster. B2B SEO leverages thought leadership to be a reliable source and authoritative brand for a specific topic. Content marketing, social media marketing, and online and offline event ownership are different ways of showing thought leadership. As Thought Leadership examples, Steve Jobs, and Fran Blanche can be given. And, Apple SEO Project leveraged Steve Jobs’ thought leadership for higher brand awareness for many years.
5. Legit Online Presence
Legit Online Presence involves proof of the legality of the company such as a legal address, phone number, email address, company founders’ identity, headquarters, names of teammates, their background, and views for the company, a tax ID, and license of the company. Legit online presence is reflected on review and complaint websites along with investment portfolio websites that include investors, companies, CEOs, and others. The Legit Online Presence helps for B2B SEO by improving the brand’s Expertise-Authoriteveness-Trustworthiness (E-A-T) in the eyes of search engines and users. A legit online presence helps for better conversions, especially in the B2B SEO, since most of the purchases cost hundreds of thousands of United States Dollars.
6. Years of Experience in Signals
Years of Experience signals involve the length of industrial activities of the company for the industry with invoices, successes, sales, and events. Google My Business (Google Business Profiles) shows the experience of the companies by giving its foundation date, and labeling it by saying in Business for 1, 2, or 3 and more years. Google’s understanding of serving the search results whether it is for local search results, whether web results represent their understanding. To show years of experience in B2B SEO for better organic rankings, demonstrating proof of long or intense experience is needed. Google search engine measures the expertise with historical data and consistency. Google doesn’t rank websites a few days after they publish their articles. Google B2B SEO requires patience and demonstration of expertise through reviews, case studies, publications, product variations, and unique value with consistency. Years of Experience in B2B SEO involves the main 7 components below.
The foundation date of the company is a B2B SEO factor for demonstrating company experience.
The intensity of the length of experience involves the value of the length of experience. A company with two years of experience might have better value than a company with 10 years of experience.
Company Success Stories involve case studies, research, publications, books, webinars, seminars, education sessions, and social responsibility campaigns to demonstrate the business value to the industry. Company success stories help B2B SEO by creating brand value, and better E-A-T.
Company Press Releases and Coverage helps B2B SEO by prov

[...truncated...]
