Website Footer: HTML Tag of Footer & Importance for SEO - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The footer of the website describes the lowest area of a website, which is mostly the same across all pages of the domain. For a long time, footer links have been used by website operators to improve the ranking results of their website. When using footer links, website operators should note that this measure is now rated as spam by search engines such as Google and punished accordingly.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
STRUCTURE AND APPLICATION OF FOOTER
2.
Footer vs. <footer>
3.
FOOTER AND ITS IMPORTANCE FOR SEO
STRUCTURE AND APPLICATION OF FOOTER
A website can usually be divided into three areas: the header, the body, and the footer. While the header often contains elaborate graphics and navigation, the body contains the entire content. Due to the small size, however, information about the website operator and the content is stored in the footer. Depending on the orientation of the website, you will also find information on the imprint and general terms and conditions. Similar to the header, the footer can be divided into two levels: the footer and the sub-footer. As a rule, these two levels differ in color from the body in order to signal to the user that this is additional information and no longer website content. Many website managers also use the footer area to set a
call-to-action (CTA)
, for example, for registering for the newsletter or to embed quality seals such as trusted shops. Cross-channel links to social networks are also often placed at the bottom of the website.
Footer vs. <footer>
There is a separate element in the specifications of the
HTML5 standard
. This is an element that is assigned to the next, higher dividing content and is to be regarded as the footer of this content. You can read our Semantic HTML Article to learn more.
It doesn’t matter where the dividing content, such as an element, is on the page. It is entirely possible to define a <footer> for the <body> of the HTML document and also add a <footer> to other elements, such as a <div>.
FOOTER AND ITS IMPORTANCE FOR SEO
In addition, the footer is particularly interesting with regard to search engine optimization (SEO).
The landing page of a website
is usually the page with the most incoming external links and thus produces the most
link juice
. In order to pass this link power to the subpages as effectively and sustainably as possible, many website operators place internal incoming links in the footer. The use of footer links also supports the work of web crawlers in the context of indexing.
However, the excessive use of footer links is rated as spam according to the Google Webmaster Guidelines and is subject to a corresponding penalty. When using footer links, website operators should take into account that they do not contribute to the usability of the website, but only support the crawlers in indexing the website. With regard to the constant development of crawlers, it is questionable whether footer links will still be necessary for the future.
However, the vast majority of websites do not yet use these further subdivision options. Therefore, when talking about the footer, it is usually the content that is displayed at the bottom of the page.
Author
Recent Posts
Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR
Owner and Founder
at
Holistic SEO & Digital
Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR is the CEO and Founder of Holistic SEO & Digital where he provides SEO Consultancy, Web Development, Data Science, Web Design, and Search Engine Optimization services with strategic leadership for the agency’s SEO Client Projects. Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR performs SEO A/B Tests regularly to understand the Google, Microsoft Bing, and Yandex like search engines’ algorithms, and internal agenda. Koray uses Data Science to understand the custom click curves and baby search engine algorithms’ decision trees. Tuğberk used many websites for writing different SEO Case Studies. He published more than 10 SEO Case Studies with 20+ websites to explain the search engines. Koray Tuğberk started his SEO Career in 2015 in the casino industry and moved into the white-hat SEO industry. Koray worked with more than 700 companies for their SEO Projects since 2015. Koray used SEO to improve the user experience, and conversion rate along with brand awareness of the online businesses from different verticals such as retail, e-commerce, affiliate, and b2b, or b2c websites. He enjoys examining websites, algorithms, and search engines.
Latest posts by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR
(
see all
)
Sliding Window
- August 12, 2024
B2P Marketing: How it Works, Benefits, and Strategies
- April 26, 2024
SEO for Casino Websites: A SEO Case Study for the Bet and Gamble Industry
- February 5, 2024
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
On-Page SEO
What is Footer? How to use it for SEO?
by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR
time to read: 2 min
On-Page SEO
What is Evergreen Content? How to Find Evergreen T…
On-Page SEO
What is Anchor Text: How to Optimize Anchor Texts …
0
0
0
