204 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The 204 HTTP Status Codes means it has no content. The 204 HTTP Status Code’s webserver has effectively satisfied the request and there is no substance to send in the response payload body. The server should return refreshed meta-data as element headers, which, if present, ought to be applied to the current archive’s dynamic view if any. The 204 HTTP Status Code response should exclude a message-body and consequently is ended all the time by the principal void line after the header fields. For instance, you might need to return status 204 HTTP Status Code in update tasks where the demanding payload is huge enough not to move back and forth. This response is principally expected to permit input for moves to take place without making a change to the client specialist’s dynamic record view. The HEAD method is utilized in 204 HTTP Header Status Code wherein response has no substance in sending a payload body. In contrast, 200 OK indicates that the request was successful and that the request’s processing is complete. The response is the last payload, and the support will not advance any farther while on the other hand  204 HTTP Status Code response is ended by the primary void line after the header fields since it can’t contain a message body.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does the 204 HTTP Status Code Mean?
1.1.
How to Use 204 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
2.
How to Check 204 HTTP Status Code?
2.1.
Which HTTP Method is used with 204 HTTP Status Code?
3.
What is the Related HTTP Response Header with 204 HTTP Status Code?
4.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of the 204 HTTP Status Code?
5.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to 204 HTTP Status Code?
What does the 204 HTTP Status Code Mean?
The 204 HTTP Status Code success status demonstrates that a request has succeeded, however, the client doesn’t have to explore away from its present page. This may be utilized, for instance, while carrying out “save and keep altering” usefulness for a wiki site. For this situation, a put request would be utilized to save the page, and the 204 HTTP Status Code response would be shipped off to demonstrate that the editor ought not to be replaced by another page. A 204 HTTP Status Code response is cacheable by default. An ETag header is also included for such a response.
How to Use 204 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
To use 204 HTTP Status Code in a website, the web developer should leverage backend tools for the webserver for scaling, efficiency, and the capacity to respond to client requests and demands immediately. The 204 HTTP Status Code with the “header” function may be used by a developer in JavaScript, Python, Ruby, PHP, Java, C#.Net, Perl, C++, Scala, and Kotlin. The web developer should update tasks where the demanding payload is huge enough not to move back and forth. This is to fulfill the request but does not need to return an entity-body, and might want to return updated metainformation.
How to Check 204 HTTP Status Code?
There are numerous techniques to check the  204 HTTP Status Code. Open the Chrome browser and press F12 to bring up the developer tools. Then choose the network tab. This will display all of your status codes, including the 204 HTTP Status Code, as well as whether or not the page was loaded from the cache. Aside from “F12+’Network’tab”, you can also Firebug or Fiddler,  use Tons of extensions, Online services, and Different SEO Tools.
Which HTTP Method is used with 204 HTTP Status Code?
There is only one method used with a 204 HTTP Status Code. The HEAD method is utilized in 204 HTTP Header Status Code wherein response has no substance in sending a payload body. The HEAD is an element header field relating to the mentioned asset that is sent in the reaction with no message-body.
What is the Related HTTP Response Header with 204 HTTP Status Code?
There is only one related HTTP Response Header with 204 HTTP Status Code and this is the HTTP Request Methods. HTTP Request Methods is a bunch of request strategies to show the ideal activity to be performed for a given resource.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of the 204 HTTP Status Code?
You can see the table that shows the browser’s compatibility of the 204 HTTP Status Code below.
Browser Name
Browser Compatibility of 204 HTTP Status Code
Chrome
YES
Firefox
YES
Internet Explorer
YES
Opera
YES
Safari
YES
WebView Android
YES
Chrome Android
YES
Firefox for Android
YES
What are the other Similar Status Codes to 204 HTTP Status Code?
There are other similar HTTP Status Codes to 204 HTTP Status Code. The following are listed below.
200 OK HTTP Status Code: The
200 OK HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 204 HTTP Status Code because they are both client successful responses. The HTTP 200 OK HTTP Status Code means that the request has been successful/succeeded. By default, a 200 OK HTTP Status Code is cacheable.
201 Created HTTP Status Code: The
201 Created HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 204 HTTP Status Code because they are both client successful responses. As a result of the request’s success, a new resource was created. This is typically the response sent in response to POST or PUT requests.
202 Accepted HTTP Status Code: The
202 Accepted HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 204 HTTP Status Code because they are both client successful responses. The 202 Accepted HTTP Status Code shows that the request has been acknowledged for processing, yet the processing has not been finished; truth be told, handling might not have begun at this point.
203 Non-Authoritative Information HTTP Status Code: The
203 Non-Authoritative Information HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 204 HTTP Status Code because they are both client successful responses. This response code indicates that the returned metadata is not the same as what is available from the origin server, but was obtained from a local or third-party copy. This is typically used for mirroring or backing up another resource. Except, in that case, the 200 OK HTTP Status Code response is preferable to this status.
205 Reset Content HTTP Status Code: The
205 Reset Content HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 204 HTTP Status Code because they are both client successful responses. This command instructs the user agent to reset the document that sent this request.
Author
Recent Posts
Follow SEO
Holistic SEO
SEO Research Department
at
Holistic SEO & Digital
Holistic SEO & Digital has been built by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR. Holistic SEO is the process of developing integrated digital marketing projects with every aspect including Coding, Natural Language Processing, Data Science, Page Speed, Digital Analytics, Content Marketing, Technical SEO, and Branding. Structured, Semantic Search Engine improves its ability to detect the real-world entities, today. Having a simple website is not enough anymore. To show that your brand is authoritative, trustworthy, and expert on its own niche, you need entity-based Search Engine Optimization Projects. Holistic SEO & Digital's main focus is on improving the brand's organic visibility and growth potential.
Follow SEO
Latest posts by Holistic SEO
(
see all
)
48 Online Shopping and Consumer Behavior Statistics, Facts and Trends
- August 22, 2023
B2B Marketing Statistics
- August 22, 2023
38 Podcast Statistics, Facts, and Trends
- August 22, 2023
1 thought on “204 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods”
This is a fantastic breakdown of HTTP response status codes! I appreciate the examples and practical usage tips. It really helps to clarify when to use each status code effectively. Looking forward to more posts like this!
Reply
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
TechSEO
204 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods
by Holistic SEO
time to read: 4 min
TechSEO
413 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
TechSEO
416 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
0
0
1
