Skip to content
There are a lot of English words that are misused and applied interchangeably in sentences and conversations nowadays due to its minimal distinction when it comes to spelling, sound and sometimes definition. The words “elicit” and “illicit” are some of the words which are often confused by writers and speakers. The term “elicit” is a verb or action word which means to draw out or evoke a response from a person. The pronunciation of the word “elicit” begins with a long “e” sound. The term”illicit,” on the other hand, is an adjective, or description word, and pertains to a forbidden by law or custom. The pronunciation of the word “illicit” is articulated with a short “i” sound at the beginning. The difference between these words in terms of pronunciation is very slight. The first thing to do is to determine whether the sentence or phrase calls for a verb or an adjective, where speakers and writers are going to have enough knowledge about the words and know how to use them correctly.
Listed below are the comparisons between the terms “elicit” and “illicit.”
“Elicit” is used as an action word.
“Elicit” is used to mean the act of bringing out or forth.
“Elicit” is sometimes used to mean to get something.
“Illicit” is used to describe things that people are not supposed to be doing.
“Illicit” is used to emphasize something that is not permitted.
“Illicit” is used as an adjective.
Content writers need to know the difference between “elicit” and “illicit” in order to properly use the terms. Content writers must bear in mind  that the word “elicit” is particularly used as an action word referring to the act of doing illegal things. Meanwhile, the term “illicit” must solely be used and referred to as an adjective. It is normally employed in sentences to indicate the things that people aren’t supposed to do.
Some example sentences using the term “elicit” are as follows; “The police chief hoped to
elicit
the truth about the missing evidence from the corrupt officer.”  and “Surprisingly, the gruesome images of the murder did not
elicit
any feelings of sympathy from the killer.” The word “elicit” is used in the sentence correctly, which refers to the act of doing something illegal. Meanwhile, some example sentences of the term “illicit” are as follows; “They were prosecuted for illicit drug selling.” and  “Illicit diamond exports are said to be worth over $500 million.” The example sentences show that the term “illicit” is used correctly as an adjective, in reference to things that people aren’t supposed to be doing.
Many content writers have been asking, “Why is it important to know the difference between “elicit” and “illicit” for content writing and marketing?” The reason for that is because they need to write better content and communicate in a healthier way to the audience. It’s important for writers to have a clear idea of what their content is about so that readers are able to understand what they’re trying to convey. Having a wide knowledge of the difference between the terms “elicit” and “illicit” is vital to the success of the content if its purpose is to educate the audience.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does “Elicit” Mean?
1.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Elicit”?
1.2.
When to use the word “Elicit” in a sentence?
1.3.
How often is the word “Elicit” used in a sentence?
1.4.
What are the synonyms of “Elicit”?
2.
What does “Illicit” Mean?
2.1.
What are the sentence examples with “illicit”?
2.2.
When to use the word “Illicit” in a sentence?
2.3.
How often is the word “Illicit” used in a sentence?
2.4.
What are the synonyms of “Illicit”?
2.5.
How are the pronunciations of “Elicit” and “Illicit”?
3.
Comparison between “Elicit” and “Illicit”
4.
Why are “Elicit” and “Illicit” misused and interchangeably in English?
4.1.
Are “Elicit” and “Illicit” the most commonly misused English words?
4.2.
What are the other similar Misused Word Pairs like “Illicit” and “Elicit” in English?
4.3.
What are the things a content writer should consider in using the words “Elicit” and “Illicit”?
4.4.
Can content writers use “Elicit” and “Illicit” in one sentence?
5.
How do Content Writers use “Elicit” and “Illicit” in their articles?
5.1.
Do Content Writers use “Elicit” and “Illicit” in the wrong way?
5.2.
Do Misused Words such as “Illicit” and “Elicit” affect SEO and UX?
What does “Elicit” Mean?
The word “elicit” means a response or reaction from someone which is usually triggered or provoked by another person. The response is categorized into two ways, either as an abstract or as an intangible reaction. It is like an emotion, or something more concrete, like facts or information. The term “elicit” comes from the Latin word “elicitus”, the past participle of the word “elicere,” which means to draw out or draw forth. Its first known use was recorded during the 1640s. Some English dictionaries, such as Oxford, define “elicit” as getting some information or reaction from somebody, often with difficulty. The word “elicit” is a very popular word in the English language. It is an important word for people’s everyday conversation emphasizing the act of making someone react in a way that the person wants.
What are the sentence examples with “Elicit”?
Listed below are examples of sentences using the term “elicit.”
“Did none of them
elicit
sympathy?”: The example sentence shows that the term “elicit” is used correctly which means getting something from someone. The sentence illustrates that something is being taken out from another entity, which in the sentence is comfort .
“Have you managed to
elicit
a response from them yet?”: The term “elicit” is used correctly in a sentence. It is being used to mean acquiring some feedback from someone or people.
“They were able to
elicit
the support from the public.”: The word “elicit”  is being used in the sentences to mean obtaining help from the public. The word “elicit” is properly applied in a sentence.
“The fundraiser did not
elicit
the donations needed to keep the shelter open despite the event planner’s hard work.”: The word “elicit” is used correctly  in a sentence as a verb. It suggests an idea that something is taken from somebody, which in the sentence’s case completely failed to raise the donations.
“The scientist hoped to
elicit
a response from a mouse by piping high-pitched sound into a sealed cage.”: The word “elicit” was used correctly as a verb in a sentence. The term “elicit” was used by scientists to mean waiting for a response from the mouse they are experimenting with.
When to use the word “Elicit” in a sentence?
The word “elicit” must be used as a verb in the sentence. It must only be used in a sentence to mean a response or a reaction. It is used to indicate that someone is doing or saying something which causes other people to respond or react. There are some content writers who get confused with the word “elicit”, especially for beginners. However, the best tip to remember is that the word “elicit” is closely spelled with the letter “e” and must be defined in reference to the act of making someone react in a way someone wants or the habit of managing someone to get information being desired.
How often is the word “Elicit” used in a sentence?
The word “elicit” must solely be used once in a sentence. It must not be used as a redundant word within a sentence. On the other hand,content writers are able to use as many other words as they want within a sentence as long as all the other words are in the right place, grammatically speaking. The use of  repeated words within a sentence or paragraph makes it feel and look simpler for readers and writers. However, content writers must be mindful of how these words are being used, especially the term “elicit.” Good quality content must be understandable and easy to read.
What are the synonyms of “Elicit”?
There are a lot of synonyms for the term “elicit.” Some of these synonyms are “evoke”, “reveal”, “call forth”,  “educe”, “get”, “disclose”,  “uncover”,  “extort”,  extract”,  “obtain”, and etc. These words are related to each other in such a way that they mean the same thing, whose base word is “bring forth.” Some example sentences of using the term “evoke” as a synonym for the word “elicit” are as follows; “It failed to evoke (elicit) the sense of peacefulness I so desperately needed after my crazy day at work, despite the soft, calm quality of the music.” and “He had no idea that his proposal evokes (elicit) such negative reactions from his colleagues.” The word used as a synonym in a sentence is “evoke,” which means to cause something to be remembered or expressed.
What does “Illicit” Mean?
The term”illicit” is an adjective that describes a noun, such as a person, place, or thing. Its meaning implies something that is not socially approved. It is related to being illegal or outside the law. The word “illicit” comes from the Old French term “illicite,” meaning unlawful or forbidden. Its first known use was during the 14th century. Some English dictionaries, such as Oxford, define “illicit” as not being allowed by the law. It is a very popular word in English and is common for everyday conversations, especially those who live in the United States and other American English speaking countries.
What are the sentence examples with “illicit”?
Listed below are example sentences using the term “illicit.”
“The cops arrested Johnny because he had an
illicit
marijuana pipe in his car.”: The term “illicit” is used in a sentence correctly. Its meaning refers to a thing that is disapproved of by society.
“Jane told the authorities about how
illicit
drugs should be allowed, and she shouted, “Legalized it!”: The term “illicit” is used in a sentence correctly. Its meaning refers to an action that is disapproved of by society.
“Mary smuggled an
illicit
bottle of water into the concert because the venue was selling them for 10 dollars.”: The term “illicit” is used in a sentence correctly. Its meaning refers to a thing that is disapproved of by society.
“The security guards took Johnny out of the concert because he was taking
illicit
photos of ladies in the bathrooms.”: The term “
illicit
” is used in a sentence correctly. Its meaning refers to a thing that is disapproved of by society.
“Joe was being charged for having
illicit
materials on his computer’s hard drive.”: The term “illicit” is used in a sentence correctly. Its meaning refers to a thing that is disapproved of by society.
When to use the word “Illicit” in a sentence?
The word “illicit” must be used as an adjective. It must particularly be used in a sentence to mean something illegal that is not approved by society or is unlawful. Writers must not be confused with the word “elicit.” There are instances when some content writers get confused with the words, especially the beginners. The best way to remember the difference between the words “elicit” and “illicit” is that the word “illicit” is closely spelled with all letters “i.” It must solely be used to define things that are not legally permitted or authorized.
How often is the word “Illicit” used in a sentence?
The term “Illicit” must only be used once in a sentence. It must not be used as a redundant word within a sentence. On the other hand, grammatically speaking, content writers are able to use as many other words as they want within a sentence as long as all the other words are in the right place. However, content writers must be mindful of how these words are being used, especially the term “illicit.” Great contents must be understandable and easy to read.
What are the synonyms of “Illicit”?
There are a lot of synonyms for the term “illicit.” Some of them are “unlawful”, “criminal”, “unauthorized”, “felonious”, “wrongful”, “prohibited”, “unethical”, “unlicensed”, “unprincipled”, “immoral”, and etc. These words are related to each other because they mean the same thing, and have the same base word which is“forbidden.” Some example sentences of using the term “illegal” as a synonym for the word “illicit” are as follows; “They are the known dealer of illegal (illicit) items in their town.” and “His father was caught up with illegal (illicit) materials in his car.“ The word used as a synonym in a sentence is “illegal,” which means to be contrary to or forbidden by official rules and regulations.
How are the pronunciations of “Elicit” and “Illicit”?
The words “elicit” and “illicit” are almost similar when it comes to their pronunciation and spelling. The pronunciation of the word “elicit” begins with a long “e” sound while, the pronunciation of the word “illicit” is with a short “i” sound at the beginning of the word. The difference in pronunciation is very slight. It is very important that aside from having knowledge of their meanings and spellings, content writers must be familiar with how these words are pronounced. It is very vital not only to think about what a writer says, but how they must say it as well. It is not enough to have well organized ideas expressed in complete and coherent sentences and paragraphs to communicate effectively. One must think about the style, tone, and clarity of the content, and adapt these elements to the reading audience. Analyzing one’s audience and purpose is the key to writing effectiveness. The writer must consider the objective of the documents in order to choose the most effective language, the content in which it is being written, and who’s reading it.
Comparison between “Elicit” and “Illicit”
Listed below is the table that shows the comparison between the words “elicit“ and “illicit.“
English Words
Definition
Context
Examples
Elicit
The word
“Elicit”
means to draw forth or bring something out.
The term
“elicit”
is being used as a verb to denote actions, conditions, or experiences.
“The lawyer was trying to
elicit
a response from her.”
“My wife was trying to
elicit
a confession from our daughters because she wanted to know who it was that broke t
Illicit
The term
“illicit”
means improper or not 

[...truncated...]