Learnt vs Learned: Difference between Them and How to correctly use them - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The past tense of the verb “learn” is spelled in two different ways: either “learnt” or “learned,” depending on the dialect being used. The meaning of the words “learnt” and “learned,” which both mean ”obtain talent or expertise” or “come to be ready to do something,” is the same whether they are used by a writer or a speaker. The spelling has a tendency to diverge from one version of English to another. The word “learnt” is the one that is typically used in the English language in the UK. Meanwhile, the word “learned” is used more frequently in the English language spoken in the United States. On top of that, British English has begun to be influenced by the American English tendency toward attempting to make irregular verbs into regular ones. It is one of the reasons why the “ed” variant is now becoming increasingly popular in countries all over the world.
The difference and comparison between “learnt“ and “learned“ are listed below.
“Learnt” is the past participle of the verb “​​learn,” which is used to indicate the action that occurred in the past.
“Learnt” is a word that is frequently used in the British English language.
“Learnt” is used when someone is making a reference to some sort of information or expertise that they gained at some point in the past.
“Learned” is widely utilized in American English.
“Learned” refers to something that has been acquired through the process of learning.
“Learned” refers to the past tense form and past participle of the verb “learn.”
“Learned” is an adjective that describes someone as having extensive and in-depth knowledge.
The verb “learn” has two past tenses and a past participle: “learnt” and “learned.” Nevertheless, the writer needs to be aware of their target demographics in order to correctly use the words in a sentence. It is appropriate to use the word “learnt” when speaking to a British English language audience. Meanwhile, use the word “learned” if the audience speaks American English. Furthermore, the word “learnt” must never be used as a noun or an adjective. It must only be used as a verb. On the other hand, writers or speakers are able to use the word “learned” as an adjective or a verb.
Some examples of “learnt” include, “In less than a month, he learnt to speak Greek and Spanish.” “The FBI quickly learnt of it and arrested all four conspirators.” The example sentences were used in the past tense context. The phrase​​ was all about what happened in the past. On the other hand, some example sentences of the word “learned” are “She learned to control her anger.” “Johnny has learned some things from watching a documentary.” The term “learned” was used in the past tense, which means the event happened in the past.
The question “Why know the difference between “learnt” and “learned” in content writing and marketing?” is one of the most commonly asked questions among content writers. Writers new to the writing industry frequently make mistakes, especially when it comes to words such as “learnt” and “learned.” They need to learn the difference between words because they need to deliver the right message to the readers. Knowing the difference between “learnt” and “learned” helps writers write better content and communicate healthily.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does “Learnt” Mean?
1.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Learnt”?
1.2.
When to use the word “Learnt” in a sentence?
1.3.
How often is the word “Learnt” used in sentence?
1.4.
What are the synonyms of “Learnt”?
2.
What does “Learned” Mean?
2.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Learned”?
2.2.
When to use the word “Learned” in a sentence?
2.3.
How often is the word “Learned” used in a sentence?
2.4.
What are the synonyms of “Learned”?
2.5.
How is the pronunciation of “Learnt” and “Learned”?
3.
Comparison between “Learnt and “Learned”
4.
Why are “Learnt” and “Learned” misused and interchangeably in English?
4.1.
Are “Learnt” and “Learned” i​​n the most commonly misused English words?
4.2.
What are the other similar Misused Word Pairs like “Learned” and “Learnt” in English?
4.3.
What are the things should a content writer consider in using the word ”Learnt” and “Learned”?
4.4.
Can content writers use “Learnt” and “Learned” in one sentence?
5.
How do Content Writers use “Learnt” and “Learned” in their articles?
5.1.
Do Content Writers use “Learnt” and “Learned” in a wrong way?
5.2.
Do Misused Words such as “Learned” and “Learnt” affect SEO and UX?
What does “Learnt” Mean?
“Learnt” is used to denote the past tense and past participle of the verb “learn.” “Learnt” is the word that people who speak British English use when they are attempting to convey the idea that a certain piece of information was “learned” in the past. Consequently, “learnt” is acceptable to be used in place of “learned” in a sentence written in British English. On top of that, the word ”learnt” is traced back to the Middle English words lernd and lernde, which are translated as learn” plus “-t.” It was first used in 1200 and remained in use until the early nineteenth century.  The word “learnt” is still used today but in the past-tense form of the adjective ”learnt,” which means “having knowledge gained by study.” Moreover, “learnt” is among the most frequently used past participles and past tenses in the English language. It has grown to become one of the most important words in people’s lives and in the conversations they have every day, particularly in countries where the English language is spoken. They expressed abilities or knowledge gained from experiences in the past by using the word “learned.”
What are the sentence examples with “Learnt”?
Listed below are the example sentences for using the word “learnt.”
“She was pleased to
learnt
that she had achieved the required score.” The word “learnt” is used to express an event that happened in the past. The example sentence is all about how a person (she) was delighted to know that she acquired the passing score.
“Johnny
learnt
about the geographic location of Australia.” The example sentence was all about Johnny who happen to be an explorer and educated himself about the geographic location of Australia. The example sentence was used to express an action that has happened in the past.
“Mary
learnt
that she will be continuing her education in the United States.” The example sentence used the past tense of “learn” which is “learnt” to indicate an action that happened in the past. The example sentence was all about Mary’s education in the United States.
“The mother of Jane
learnt
how to play the guitar.” The example sentence describes how the mother of Jane knows how to play the guitar. The past tense “learnt” was used to indicate that the event or learning to play the guitar did happen in the past.
“During the days of Covid-19 lockdown, she
learnt
the art of cooking.” The example phrase was used to indicate that the person (she) knows how to cook, and the event happened during the Covid-19 lockdown. The example indicates that the event has happened in the past.
When to use the word “Learnt” in a sentence?
The word “learnt” must be used as the past participle and past tense of the verb “learn.” It is used as a verb to describe acquiring knowledge or skills or becoming able to perform a task from the past. The word “learnt” must be used as “showcasing knowledge” or “defined by gaining knowledge.” There is no meaningful distinction between the word “learnt” and the word “learned.” On top of that, the authors must keep in mind that speakers of British English are more likely to spell the word “learnt” with a “t”  at the end of the word than American English speakers are.
How often is the word “Learnt” used in sentence?
The way in which the word “learnt” is spelled with a “t” varies according to the context of the discussion or the content being discussed. On the other hand, when it comes to using it in a single sentence, the word must not be used more than once. Moreover, the word “learnt” is one of the words that is utilized the most frequently, particularly in the course of a conversation. It is only appropriate to use the word “learnt” when discussing information or skills that a person has gained through experience or guidance in the past. On top of that, the word “learnt” must be used to indicate both the past tense of the verb “learn” and its past participle. It must only be used as a verb when speaking to audiences whose primary language is British English.
What are the synonyms of “Learnt”?
The word “learnt” has numerous synonyms. Some synonyms are “trained,” “educated,” “well-educated,” “egg-headed,” etc. These words are used to help readers figure out what a word means when an author uses a word that sounds like a word they don’t know the meaning of. It offers the reader a clear and distinct perspective of the text, which is one of the ways that it is used to help improve the overall quality of the written work. Some examples of the word “learnt” using other synonyms include “We have trained (learnt) a lot from the course.” “He never trained (learnt) as a result of his past failures.” On top of that, the word “learnt” does not have any interpretation phrases that are frequently used in the English language.
What does “Learned” Mean?
The word “learned” is the past tense and past participle of the word “learn.” It means being highly educated or demonstrating a high level of education; being knowledgeable or skilled as a result of education or experience. On top of that, the word “learned” originates from Middle English lerned, lernd, and lernyd, which is equivalent to learn + -ed. The latter term succeeded the earlier lered (“taught”), which was derived from Old English (e)lred, the past participle of lran (“to teach”). The word “learn” was once used to mean both “to teach,” which is now considered nonstandard usage, and “to learn,” which is now considered to be the primary meaning of the word. Moreover, the first known use of the word “learned” was before the 12th century. It is one of the past tenses and past participles that are utilized the most frequently in the English language. The word “learned” is now one of the words that people use the most frequently and that holds the most significance in their everyday lives. It’s a way to show what someone has learned or what skills they have gained through experience or study.
What are the sentence examples with “Learned”?
Listed below are some example sentences using the word “learned.”
“No one
learned
their knowledge by birth.” The word “learned” was used as a past tense to indicate that the event from the example sentence has happened in the past. The example sentence is all about knowing that each one of humankind was not born with knowledge.
“At the age of six, she
learned
to become a licensed driver.” The example sentence is all about how a person (she) knows how to drive at the age of six. The word used “learned” is a past tense form of “learn,” which means that the event “at the age of six” has happened in the past.
“She
learned
how to sew all by herself.” The phrase was all about how a person (she) knows how to sew all by herself. The word used is “learned,” which means that the event happened in the past, although there is no indication of a specific time.
“Johnny
learned
his dance moves through his father.” The word “learned” was used in the sentence to express a message that the event of learning dance moves has happened in the past.
“Mary
learned
a lot of insight into the history of her mother.” The past tense in the sentence is “learned” and is used to express a message that Mary knows a lot about her mother’s past.
When to use the word “Learned” in a sentence?
​​The word “learned” must be used both as a verb and an adjective. The adjective “learned” is used interchangeably with “knowledgeable” to describe someone with a high level of education. Similarly, if “learned” is used as a verb, it must refer to a situation where a person has accumulated a great deal of information through study. The definition of “learned” is “shown” or “classified by learning,” depending on the context. On top of that, the authors need to keep in mind that an average reader of American English is more likely to be familiar with the spelling of the word “learned.”
How often is the word “Learned” used in a sentence?
The conversation being had or the topic being discussed determines how frequently the word “learned” is used.  On the other hand, when it comes to using it in a single sentence, the word shouldn’t be used more than once. Moreover, “learned” is one of the words that is utilized the most frequently, particularly in the course of a conversation. Used the word “learned” only when discussing how an individual has gained expertise in the past. The concept of learning is implied or characterized by the word. Further to that, the word “learned” must be used in place of “learn” in a sentence as either an adjective or a verb, depending on whether or not it is in the past tense or the past participle.
What are the synonyms of “Learned”?
​​The word “learned” has numerous synonyms. Some of them are “accomplished,” “educated,” “well-educated,” “cultivated,” etc. These words are used to help readers figure out what a word means when a writer uses a word that sounds like a word they don’t know the meaning of. It offers the reader a clear and distinct perspective of the text, which is one of the ways that it is used to help improve the overall quality of the written work. Other words that are used interchangeably with “learned” include “She finally accomplished (learned) the process of photosynthesis.” “Despite the fact that life occasionally gets in the way of their ambitions, they cultivated (learned) the ability to remain resilient.” On top of that, the English language does not have any frequently used interpretation phrases that contain the word “lea

[...truncated...]
