Cloth, Clothe or Clothes: Difference between Them and How to correctly use them - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The words “cloth,”  “clothe,”  and “clothes” are often mistaken because of their spellings and pronunciations. Their one- to two-letter differences make it more difficult to use these words in sentences. The words “cloth”, “clothe”, and “clothes”, aside from spelling, have different definitions, forms and uses as well. ”Cloth” is a noun that means a fabric material made from woven wool, cotton, or silk. “Cloth” is later sewn for specific purposes. The word “clothe” is a verb that refers to the action of putting sewn clothes on one’s body. “Clothe” is defined as “to dress or attire” in British English. The word “clothe,” furthermore, is described as “to put clothes on” in American English. The term “clothes” is in the form of a noun. It is described as the fabric worn to cover the body. “Clothes” are actually the finished product of the cloth when it is sewn.
The difference and comparison for the terms “Cloth”, “Clothe” and “Clothes” are listed below.
“Cloth” is used to describe a knitted or weaved material from wool, cotton, and silk..
“Cloth” is used as a noun.
“Cloth” is used as a singular term for the word “cloths”.
“Clothe” is used to define the act of putting on clothes.
“Clothe” is used to define ‘to dress or attire’ in British English.
“Clothe” is used as a verb, in a passive form.
“Clothes” is used as a noun, in a plural form.
“Clothes” is used to indicate the things that people wear.
“Clothes” is used to define the sewn cloth specifically made to cover the body.
It is necessary for writers and speakers to be adept in distinguishing the difference between the words “cloth,” clothe,” and “clothes.” These words are properly used in sentences by determining the structure of the sentence first. “Cloth” is a singular noun which means fabric. It is incorrect to use the word “cloth” to describe the things that people wear to cover their body. The word “Clothe” is an action word and has various tenses such as past, present and future tenses. It simply means to put on clothes. It is sometimes defined as to supply someone or oneself with clothes. The word “Clothes,” on the other hand, are the fabric material specifically sewn to cover the body. It is always plural and it does not have a singular form. It is improper  to use the term “clothes” in a sentence which is referring to the act of putting the clothes itself into one’s body. The term “clothes,” aside from these, must not be used to define the fabrics knitted from wool, cotton or silk as well.
There are some example sentences for the words “cloth”, “clothe” and “clothes.” The sentence examples for “cloth” are the following, “The sweater was made out of knitted
cloth
.” and “Don’t forget to put on some
cloth
.” The first sentence is correct because cloth is used to describe the material that was used to make the sweater. The second sentence, on the contrary, is wrong because the word that is supposed to be used in that sentence is “clothes” not “cloth.” The sentence examples for the word “clothe” are as follows, “You were
clothed
in a red jacket when I saw you at the movies.” and “The
clothe
you wore the other day was mine.” The first sentence is correct because it indicates putting on the red jacket which is the definition of clothe. However,  in the second sentence, the word “clothe” is an inappropriate word to use. The writer must have used the word “clothes” instead. Furthermore, the example sentences for the word “clothes” are the following, “Please put some
clothes
on before you freeze to death.” and “Your
clothes
are in the hamper.” The two sentences are using the word “clothes” in the proper way because they are used in the correct form.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does “Cloth” Mean?
1.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Cloth”?
1.2.
When to use the word “Cloth” in a sentence?
1.3.
What are the synonyms of “Cloth”?
2.
What does “Clothe” Mean?
2.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Clothe”?
2.2.
When to use the word “Clothe” in a sentence?
2.3.
What are the synonyms of “Clothe”?
3.
What does “Clothes” Mean?
3.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Clothes”?
3.2.
When to use the word “Clothes” in a sentence?
3.3.
What are the synonyms of “Clothes”?
3.4.
How is the pronunciation of “Cloth”, “Clothe” and “Clothes”?
4.
Comparison between “Cloth”, “Clothe” and “Clothes”
5.
Why are “Cloth”, “Clothe” and “Clothes” misused and interchangeably in English?
5.1.
Are “Cloth”, “Clothe” and “Clothes” is the most commonly misused English words?
5.2.
What are the other similar Misused Word Pairs like “Cloth”, “Clothe” and “Clothes” in English?
5.3.
What are the things should a content writer consider in using the word “Cloth”, “Clothe” and “Clothes”?
5.4.
Can content writers use “Cloth”, “Clothe” and “Clothes” in one sentence?
6.
How do Content Writers use “Cloth”, “Clothe” and “Clothes” in their articles?
6.1.
Do Content Writers use “Cloth”, “Clothe” and “Clothes” in a wrong way?
6.2.
Do Misused Words such as “Cloth”, “Clothe” and “Clothes” affect SEO and UX?
What does “Cloth” Mean?
“Cloth” is a woven fabric made from inter-texture of threads or fibers. It came from the Old Irish era as an adjective which implies “made or consisting of cloth”, with first known use before the 12th century. People started using the word cloth in the 1590s and back then it was defined as “distinctive clothing worn by some group.” The etymology of the word “cloth” started from an old English term
clāth
which means garment to Middle High German term
kleit
which means garment as well. The word “cloth” is defined as “material made by weaving or knitting cotton, wool or silk” according to the Oxford Dictionary. “Cloth” is not a word that is commonly used daily, compared to clothes. The people who usually use the word cloth are the people working as dressmakers or seamstresses. Although cloth is not used often by people on a daily basis,  it is still as important as the other words in English because it helps people communicate to one another in a better way.
What are the sentence examples with “Cloth”?
Listed below are sentence examples for the word ‘Cloth’.
“More people prefer using costumes made out of silk
cloth
.” The term “cloth” in the sentence is used to denote the woven fabric that is used to make the costumes. It is used as a noun in the sentence.
“Please wash the dirty
cloth
that you used to wipe the table.” The sentence expresses the writer’s request to clean the woven fabric that was used for wiping dirt. The term “cloth” is used as a noun in the sentence as well.
“Anna’s  prom dress was made out of knitted
cloth
.” The sentence implies an idea that the subject’s dress is made from knitted fabric. The word “cloth” is used as a noun.
“Her favorite shirt was made out of wool
cloth
.” The word “ cloth” is used as a noun which means a woven fabric material. It is used in the sentence to denote that the subject’s favorite shirt is made from a fabric material consisting of wool.
When to use the word “Cloth” in a sentence?
The word “Cloth” is used in a sentence when  referring to any type of fabric material used to make clothes, bags or even purses. “Cloth”, basically, is the raw material from which all clothes are made through the process of sewing.. It is considered grammatically wrong to confuse “cloth” with “clothes.” It is very important to understand that “cloth” is never a verb. “Cloth” is always used as a singular form. It is commonly used as a noun but if used as an adjective, “cloth” is meant to describe the material used for the specific fabric such as wool, cotton or silk. A synonym for cloth is weave. Weave is a material used in clothing production.
What are the synonyms of “Cloth”?
There are synonymous terms for the word “cloth.” Some of these terms are “fabric” and  “textile.” “Fabric” is defined as a material that resembles cloth. The term”textile” means a fiber, filament, or yarn used in making cloth. It is defined as a woven or knit cloth as well. The example sentences for the word “fabric” are, “The curtains are made of expensive
fabric
(cloth)” and “The scarves are made of woven
fabrics
(cloth).” The term “fabric” as used in the sentence, pertains  to a raw material used to make clothes and accessories or in other words “cloth”. Some of the example sentences for the term “textile” are,
“
They import fine silk
textiles
(cloth) fromThailand.” and “The tourist brought back a whole suitcase of beautiful
textiles
(cloth) from India.” The term “textile” as used in the sentence, indicates the most basic material in making clothes and worn accessories. There are other variations of the word “cloth” namely; “goods,” “material,” and “ fiber.” These words are used alternatively instead of the word “cloth” provided that they are used in the right form and right context.
What does “Clothe” Mean?
The term “clothe” means to cover with apparel. It is the act of putting clothes on to oneself or to someone else. Another definition for “clothe” is to convey ideas or thoughts in appropriate or telling terms. The second description, however, is rarely used in normal sentences. The word “clothe” is primarily applied in a sentence to denote the act of wearing clothes. It is usually used as a verb. “Clothe” originated from the Old English word clāth. Its first known use was before the 12th century. The term “clothe” is defined as to dress somebody or oneself, according to the Oxford Dictionary. “Clothe” is a common word in English. It is commonly used in normal conversations and sentence construction. The term “clothe” is typically used when talking about dresses, costumes, attires, fashion and personal care. “Clothe” is an important word for daily life because it helps speakers and writers to express their thoughts in a proper way.
What are the sentence examples with “Clothe”?
Listed below are sentence examples with the word “clothe.”
“They
clothe
their children in the latest fashions.” The sentence implies that the subject is putting on the latest attire for their children. “Clothe” is used as a verb which denotes the act of wearing pieces of garments in the body.
“They liked to
clothe
the twins with the same costume just to confuse the audience.” The term”clothe” is used as a verb in the sentence indicating the act of putting on fabric materials into the body as a covering. Notice the infinitive marker “to” before the word “clothe.” Its sole purpose is to show that “clothe” is an infinitive verb.  The sentence directly implies that the subject is using the same attire to the twins to wear in order to create confusion among the audiences.
“Nature
clothes
, feeds and shelters humanity in ways they don’t seem to value.” Take note that a letter ‘s’ is added to the term“clothe”. Combining these two entities creates a present tense-third person-singular form of the word “clothe,” although it holds a letter ‘s’ at the end of the word, the meaning remains the same. The term “clothes” in the sentences implies that nature puts on a covering or protection for humanity.
“The chief of staff
clothed
the regulations during the presentation.” The sentence illustrates the less common definition of the word “clothe.” The term “clothed” in the sentence means to express ideas or thoughts using constructive words. The sentence implies that the chief of staff is using more appropriate words in presenting their regulations rather than using destructive terms.
When to use the word “Clothe” in a sentence?
The word “clothe” is used when referring to the act of putting on pieces of garments in one’s body or somebody else’s. “Clothe” is primarily used as a verb rather than a noun. It is not applicable to define a place, thing, person or event. The word “clothe” must not be used to indicate the fabrics themselves or the woven material used in sewing clothes because it is not the right term for that. The correct term to use in these cases is “clothes” and “cloth” respectively. One good synonym for the word “clothe” is the phrasal verb “put on.” “Put on” is applicable in sentences denoting the act of wearing fabrics. It is allowed to be used alternatively with the word “clothe”.The term “clothe” must not be used to describe the sewn garments itself or the raw woven material because it generates an incorrect representation of the word “clothe.”
What are the synonyms of “Clothe”?
There are a number of synonyms for the word “clothe”. Some of these synonyms are “bundle up” and “cloak”. The word “bundle up” is a phrasal verb which means to dress (somebody) warmly and snugly. Further definition for the phrasal verb “bundle up” is to make (something) into a bundle or bundles, especially by tying. It is used when denoting an act of dressing oneself or somebody else’s or an act of keeping things together in one material.  Another synonym for the word “clothe” is “cloak”. The term “cloak” is described as to cover with or as if with a cloak. “Cloak” sometimes means to hide or conceal at the same time. The word “cloak” must be used as a verb to denote the same idea as the term “clothe” in a sentence. The following sentences show how to apply the phrasal verb “bundle up” in a sentence, “It is important to
bundle up
(clothe) before going out to keep from catching a cold.” and “I need to
bundle up
(clothe) the kids before they go and play in the snow.” The sentences showing how to enforce the term “cloak” in a sentence, on the hand, are the following, “He arrived at the theater
cloaked
(clothe) in red velvet.” and “The reunion party was
cloaked
(clothe) in agony.” Some other variations for the word “clothe” are  “dress”, “disguise”, and “do up”. These words must be used in a verbal form to express the same meaning as the word “clothe”.
What does “Clothes” Mean?
The word “clothes” means garments for the body or apparel for wearing. “Clothes” refers to the items or things that are used to cover, protect, keep warm, or decorate 

[...truncated...]
