Skip to content
There are a lot of English words which are misused in sentences and conversations due to their similarity in terms of spelling, pronunciation, and sometimes in meaning. The terms “complementary” and “complimentary” are some of the words that are used interchangeably because of how they are only spelled with one letter difference and how they are pronounced. The term “complimentary” is spelled with an “i” while the term “complementary” is spelled with an “e.” “Complimentary” means expressing praise or admiration, however, it is sometimes used to mean free. Meanwhile, “complementary” means completeness or enhances the qualities of something else. These words are both correct terms but must be used according to its assigned meaning.
The differences and comparisons for the terms  “complimentary” and “complementary” are listed below.
“Complimentary” is used in reference to flattering or praising someone.
“Complimentary” is used to give something away for free.
“Complementary” is used to complete or provide something lacking.
“Complementary” is used to describe two or more parts that work together well.
Content writers must know the difference between “complimentary” and “ complementary” in order to properly use the terms. Content writers must know that the word “complimentary” must solely be used to refer to admiration or providing something for free. On the other hand, “complementary” which is spelled with the letter “e” must solely be used for comparing two entities in such a way as to enhance or emphasize the qualities of each other or another. Understanding the difference between these words is vital in order to provide the right message to the audience.
Some examples of sentences using the word “complimentary” are the following; “He had complimentary tickets to take his girlfriend to see their favorite movies.” and  “He had only complimentary things to say about her cooking.” The examples show the different usage of the term “complimentary”. The first example is used to describe an event that shows someone has something for free. Meanwhile, the other example is used to describe an event or action that indicates someone is giving compliments to someone. On the other hand, some examples of using the word “complementary” in sentences are the following; “She wore a new outfit with a complementary scarf.” and  “My spouse and I have complementary goals.” The two example sentences show that the term “complementary” is being used to describe completeness for one another.
Many content writers have been asking “why know the difference between “complimentary” and “complementary” for content writing and marketing?” The reason for that is they need to write better content and communicate in a healthier way to the audience. It is very important that writers have a clear understanding of what their content is all about in order to provide comprehensible output to the audience. Having wide knowledge about the differences between the terms “complimentary” and “complementary” is vital to the success of the content if its purpose is to educate the audience.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does “Complementary” Mean?
1.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Complementary”?
1.2.
When to use the word “Complementary” in a sentence?
1.3.
How often is the word “Complementary” used in a sentence?
1.4.
What are the synonyms of “Complementary”?
2.
What does “Complimentary” Mean?
2.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Complimentary”?
2.2.
When to use the word “Complimentary” in a sentence?
2.3.
How often is the word “Complimentary” used in a sentence?
2.4.
What are the synonyms of “Complimentary”?
2.5.
How is the pronunciation of “Complementary” and “Complimentary”?
3.
Comparison between “Complementary” and “Complimentary”
4.
Why are “Complementary” and “Complimentary” misused and interchangeably in English?
4.1.
Are “Complementary” and “Complimentary” in the most commonly misused English words?
4.2.
What are the other similar Misused Word Pairs like “Complimentary” and “Complementary” in English?
4.3.
What are the things a content writer should consider in using the word “Complementary” and “Complimentary”?
4.4.
Can content writers use “Complementary” and “Complimentary” in one sentence?
5.
How do Content Writers use “Complementary” and “Complimentary” in their articles?
5.1.
Do Content Writers use “Complementary” and “Complimentary” in the wrong way?
5.2.
Do Misused Words such as “Complimentary” and “Complementary” affect SEO and UX?
What does “Complementary” Mean?
The term “complementary” means to complete or to enhance the qualities of something else. It is being used to describe an event or things that are different from each other but makes a good combination. “Complementary” is an adjective word that means mutually completing each other’s deficiencies. It comes from the root word “complement,” which was derived from Old French “compliement,” meaning accomplishments. Some other dictionaries, such as Oxford define the term “complementary” as two people or different things that are different but together form a useful or attractive combination of skills, qualities, or physical features. The first known use of the “complementary” was in the year 1829. It is a term that’s commonly used in the English language to the point that it became an important word used for the daily activity of people. It is being used by individuals to provide a clear understanding of what they are trying to mean on a conversational basis.
What are the sentence examples with “Complementary”?
Listed below are the example sentences using the term “complementary.”
“They are going to give you color combinations that are
complementary
or, at the very least, colors that don’t clash.” The term ”complementary” is being used to mean having perfectness of combined color. It is used to describe the completeness of color if it is mixed correctly or at least the color that is not contrasting to the other color.
“
Complementary
side dishes include baked sweet potatoes, salads, fries, and fresh bakes yeast rolls.” The word “Complementary” is being used to mean a perfect mixture of food. The foods mentioned are different from one another, but it is supplementing or creates edification for one another.
“His personality is
complementary
to hers.” The word “complementary” is being used here to describe a character of a person that completes the other person’s persona.
“My family and my job both play an important part in my life, fulfilling separate but
complementary
needs.” The adjective term “complementary” is used in a sentence to mean something that’s very particular in a person’s life despite its difference. It expresses an idea that two different entities complete the subject’ life separately when it comes to such needs.
“The computer and the human mind have different but
complementary
abilities.” The adjective “complementary” is being used in the sentence to indicate that two different things, namely the human mind and the computers, supplement one another, especially when it comes to innovating.
When to use the word “Complementary” in a sentence?
The term “complementary” must be used in a sentence to mean serving completeness or supplying to mutual needs. The term “complementary” is being used mostly with colors. However, it is sometimes used with other things, such as people’s personalities, foods, and etc. Content writers are able to use the word “complementary” to provide a clear message to the audience, how  things create completeness or wholeness to one another. Writers must not confuse the word “complementary” to the term “complimentary.” The best tip to remember is that the word “complementary” is closely spelled to the word complete and must be spelled with all letters “e.”
How often is the word “Complementary” used in a sentence?
The word “complementary” must only be used once in a sentence. It must not be used as a redundant word within a sentence. On the other hand, content writers are able to use as many other words as they want within a sentence as long as all the words are in the right place, grammatically speaking. Repeating words is a matter of style. Many repeated words within a sentence or paragraph makes the sentence itself feel simpler. However, content writers must be mindful of how these words are being used, especially the term “complementary.” Good quality content must be understandable and easy to read.
What are the synonyms of “Complementary”?
There are a lot of synonyms for the term “complementary.” Some of these terms are “mutual,” “combined,” “shared,” “reciprocal,” “common,” “united,” “joint,” etc. These words are related to each other in such a way that one completes the other. Some examples of using one of the synonyms of “complementary” are the following; “Jane and Johnny’s skills are
mutual
(complementary); he’s good at following a daily routine, while she’s great at handling emergencies.”, and  “The
mutual
(complementary) relationship that binds the two.” The example sentences used the word  “mutual,” the synonym of “complementary,” which means the same thing, to complete something despite its differences. There are other variations of the term “complementary,” however, one of the most common words is “complete.”
What does “Complimentary” Mean?
The term “complimentary” means someone is flattering or admiring someone. However, the term “complimentary” is sometimes used to mean “free.” The adjective “complimentary” comes from the root word “compliment.” It was derived from the Latin term “complementum,” which means fills up. The first known use of “complimentary” was in the year 1714. Some dictionaries, such as Oxford Dictionary define “complimentary” as expressing approval. It is a very common word used in the English language and one of the most important words used in people’s daily lives. The word “complimentary” became an important factor to people and is used in daily conversation to provide a better understanding of what the conversation is all about.
What are the sentence examples with “Complimentary”?
Listed below are the example sentences using the term”complimentary.”
“She got
complimentary
tickets for the cinema.” The word “complimentary” is used in a sentence to mean something that is free. The sentence indicates that someone received something to watch for free in the cinema.
“The hotel offers a
complimentary
breakfast that is free of charge for any guest that books a room.” The adjective “complimentary” is used to mean free. It is being used to emphasize that guests who decide  to book a room are going to receive something that is free of charge without any hidden charges on their account.
“Not all of his comments were
complimentary
.” The term “complimentary” is used here to mean someone said something that is the opposite of praise. These remarks are not pleasing to the ears and hurt someone’s feelings instead.
“She made some highly
complimentary
remarks about their school.” The word “complimentary” is used to mean that someone said something pleasing to the school. Someone is highly praising the school with nice words.
“He received remarks that were reverse of
complimentary
.” The term “complimentary” is used to indicate something opposite to applaud words. The sentence denotes that someone gave comments on something that are not expressing admiration but rather expressing something that hurts someone’s feelings.
When to use the word “Complimentary” in a sentence?
The word “complimentary” must be used in expressing admiration or in praising someone. However, content writers are able to use the word “complimentary” to mean that something is free of charge for anything or something. Content writers must not misuse the term “complimentary” with “complementary” despite their identical pronunciation because they have different usage when it comes to their meanings. Content writers must remember that the word “complimentary” is spelled with the letter “i.” Content writers must use specific words and must have enough knowledge on every word being used, especially the term  “complimentary” to create strong and compelling images in the minds of the readers.
How often is the word “Complimentary” used in a sentence?
The word “complimentary” must solely be used once in a sentence. It must not be used as a redundant word within a sentence. However, there are some instances when content writers are able to use the same word repeatedly in a sentence, but they need to keep in mind that these words must be kept in the right place. Content writers must be aware of what words to use because sometimes there are instances that make the content less in quality. The fewer or less words content writers choose, the more powerful are the contents that they are able to make. On top of that, the more opportunities they have to connect to the audience as a result.
What are the synonyms of “Complimentary”?
There are a lot of synonyms for the term “complimentary”. Some of these terms are “appreciative,” “admiring,” “flattering,” “worshiping,” “approving,” “praiseful,” “idolizing,” and etc. These words are related to each other in such a way that these words are used to mean one thing, which is to provide good reviews to one another. Some examples of using one of the synonyms of the term “complimentary” are the following; “His content received a
flattering
(complimentary) reviews.” and “They give
praiseful
(complimentary) to the school’s management.” The example sentences used “flattering” and “praiseful” as the synonym of “complimentary,” which means the same thing, to say something that’s very pleasing to someone’s ear. There are other variations of the term “complimentary,” however, one of the most common words is “admiration.”
How is the pronunciation of “Complementary” and “Complimentary”?
The words “Complementary” and “complimentary” are similar-sounding terms with different meanings; these are homophonic words. The terms “complementary” and “com

[...truncated...]