Skip to content
Casino Search Engine Optimization is to provide a better organic search performance for websites from the gambling market and industry. SEO for Casino Websites involves competitive branding, historical data, search sessions, Information Retrieval, and Extraction optimization for gambling types and betting industries. Search Engine Optimization for casinos and casino affiliate websites is implemented with numerous authors, outreach teams, and different types of SEO understandings such as technical, local, and off-page SEO. The SEO Case Study for the Casino Websites explains the process of the SEO Project to accomplish organic traffic increase and an explanation for the changes.
The SEO Case Study for the Casino Industry involves two different websites. Those two other websites are optimized for Semantic SEO.
To understand the context of the Casino SEO Case Study, the key points are given below.
During the Casino SEO Project, the author team has been trained with more than 15 hours of education.
During the Casino SEO Project Case Study, the company’s SEO was trained for 10+ hours.
During the Casino SEO Project Case Study, the articles were revised and changed in sentence structure.
During the Casino SEO Project Case Study, the Semantic SEO basics have been taught to the client.
The Results for the Casino SEO Project are below.
75% Organic Click Increase for the last 3 months.
55% Organic Impression Increase for the last 3 months.
291% Organic Query Increase
274% First 3 Ranking Organic Query Increase
338% first 10 ranking Organic Queries Increase
98% Organic Click Increase for the 3 Months of YoY.
34% Organic Impression increase for the 3 Months of YoY.
132% Organic Click Impressions for the Last 28 Days of YoY.
The SEO performance results above belong to the first Casino Affiliate Website, …bet.com.
During the Casino SEO Case Study, the topical map and the semantic content network have been configured slightly to implement different languages, locales, and a second, or even a third, website.
However, the Casino Client has been warned not to use the same content strategy for more than 3 websites. The second website follows the first website with a similar configuration; thus, the results are more minimalist.
The second website’s Casino SEO results are below.
212% Organic Query Increase
165% First 3 Organic  Ranking Query Increase
296% First 10 Organic Ranking Query Increase
42% Organic Click Increase for the Last 3 Months
6% Organic Impression Increase for the Last 3 Months
The name of the second Casino Website for the SEO Project is Betenemy.com.
The SEMRush results for …bet.com are below.
The Ahrefs results for …bet.com are below.
The Ahrefs result for Betenemy.com is below.
After explaining the results of the Casino SEO Case Study, the methodology, background of the SEO Project, and the training methodology of the team, along with the Semantic SEO Understanding for Casino Websites, will be processed.
The last 6 months of traffic change and improvement for the Casino SEO website are below.
The last 12 months of organic traffic change for the Casino Website can be seen below.
The last 12 Months of Organic Traffic Change for the specific Casino Website is prominent to show the Semantic SEO implementation’s effect on the specific casino website. Implementing the same old methods with PageRank Hoarding, and having backlinks didn’t create a difference for the Casino Website until the education of Semantic SEO has been given to the specific website operators.
The Semantic SEO Education for the specific team is longer than 15 hours. It will be published within the Semantic SEO Course of the Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR in the practical Semantic SEO section.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
Casino SEO and Off-Page SEO Campaigns with Branding
1.1.
Is it an Obligation to Use PageRank for Casino SEO?
1.1.1.
Is External PageRank used during the Casio SEO Case Study?
2.
Semantic SEO and Casino Industry Websites
2.1.
How to Extract Related Entities for a Casino Website?
2.2.
How to Educate the Authors and Writers for Casino SEO?
2.3.
How to Audit Authors’ Articles during a Casino SEO Project?
2.4.
How to Arrange the Internal Links for Casino Industry SEO?
2.4.1.
How to Use Relevance Attribution?
2.4.2.
How to Use Relevance Radius?
2.4.3.
How to Keep the Content Publication Frequency Higher than the Competitors?
3.
Technical SEO for Casino SEO Guide
3.1.
Structured Data Usage for Casino SEO
3.2.
PageSpeed Optimization for Casino SEO
3.3.
Web Accessibility for Casino SEO
3.4.
Notes about Source Shadowing
4.
Multilingual SEO for Casino SEO
5.
Last Thoughts on Casino SEO and Holistic SEO
5.1.
Is Casino SEO Difficult?
5.1.1.
How long does it take to see results for Casino SEO?
5.2.
Is Casino SEO Costly?
5.3.
Is Building Visibility for Casino Sites without External PageRank possible?
Casino SEO and Off-Page SEO Campaigns with Branding
Off-Page SEO and Branding are prominent for the Casino SEO Projects. The Casino SEO Guide involves backlinks, PageRank, and Branding Campaigns because competitive queries require vast approval from the open web with hypertext. The problem with Off-Page SEO Campaigns in the Casino Industry is that it is costlier than the normal Off-Page projects. Most of the time, the Anti-SEO and Black Hat SEO are involved in the Casino SEO Projects. Managing a Private Blog Network and creating backlinks within the PBN requires a high-level understanding of the search engine’s spam detection and ranking algorithms. A website can increase its rankings when the links are removed from the website or the website. Or, a website can decrease its ranking if it is frequently linked to similar other websites.
The Last 6 Months of Organic Traffic Comparison for the Specific Casino Website with 37.90% Increase.
The next paragraph contains the author’s opinions on the Blackhat SEO for the Casino Industry.
I have worked in the Casino SEO Industry
for more than 2 years. Most of the work that I have done was pure blackhat. I have managed a PBN with more than 16,000 websites, I don’t count the millions of web 2.0 single-page blogs, and social media accounts along with the botnets. Most of the blackhat SEO-related methodologies stopped working after the First Day of August 2018, the Medic Update of Google. Besides the PageRank manipulation, using popularity signals such as fake social media accounts or shares and the fake traffic from various pop-up ads brands worked before the Medic Update. After the changes during the medic update, most
PBNs were dead, and the only way to continue to have a proper PBN for SEO is to create quality websites within the PBN, which is more expensive than the traditional methods. Thus, I don’t suggest using the blackhat methods in the Casino SEO Guide
. Still, I know some situations where CTR manipulation, PageRank manipulation, fake traffic with Selenium,
and other old methods work slightly compared to old times. But, none of those methods are cheaper than the quality white hat SEO work.
The Organic Search Performance Comparison for the Last 3 Months as Year over Year for the Casino SEO Case Study Project Website with 98% Organic Click Increase.
Because of the Google Medic Update 2018, using the white-hat link-building campaigns with Digital PR and actual quality content that provides unique value is better. To explain all the balance between the PageRank Hoarding, Sculpting, and the PageRank Manipulation Detection Algorithms of the search engines, an entirely different book can be written. To use the Off-Page SEO properly with the Casino SEO, having the backlink sources of the competitors and their backlink sources in the backlink profile of the casino websites is necessary. In a link graph, a website can have a better position for having a better reference value. If a website links out 200 different domains, search engines can take only the most linked 5 domains to be considered as a “good reference.” Thus, having random links from random sources is not good for the Topic-sensitive PageRank and Cautious Surfer models and understandings. Creating a proper natural backlink and PageRank flow profile with a natural velocity and anchor text distribution from different sources from the link graph is necessary for Casino SEO.
The Last 3 Months of Organic Traffic Increase for the Casino SEO Case Study Website with an %80 increase.
Is it an Obligation to Use PageRank for Casino SEO?
No, external PageRank is unnecessary for ranking websites in the Casino Industry. But, there is no web page on the open web without a PageRank value. Thus, having a PageRank to rank web pages is a normal and necessary argument. Having External PageRank via external links is not an obligation to use PageRank for Casino SEO.
The Last 28 Days of Organic Performance Comparison of the Casino SEO Case Study Website with a 14% Increase. It shows that the same method still pushes the website further.
Is External PageRank used during the Casio SEO Case Study?
During the Casino SEO Case Study, the External PageRank is used by the client’s teams regularly. During the SEO Case Study for the Casino Industry, the subject websites are linked as in previous times, and most of these backlinks are not from authoritative or prominent websites. For 5 months, …bet.com has gained 3091 new backlinks, 3.9% of the total backlink count. The average Domain Rating (Ahrefs) of those backlinks is 16,81. The average referring domain for the backlink sources is only 1.71. The average external link count from these backlink resources is 391.87. The average traffic of these backlink URLs is 46. The average query count of those backlink resource URLs is 1.47. In other words, these links are not prominent, or different from those before. That’s why, the External PageRank is not the reason for this organic traffic increase, because competitors have earned more links in quantity and quality. And the specific websites ranked for the first time for most of those queries. Suppose a website ranks for the first time for a query and clusters of queries with different topics and connections by being competitors to entirely different websites. In that case, the previous backlink campaigns won’t help as existing topics.
Last 28 Days of Comparison for the Casino SEO Case Study Website with 118% Organic Click Increase.
The PageRank Flow and the Backlink Related sections are kept short and brief for the Casino SEO Guide and the Semantic SEO understanding. In normal conditions, PageRank-related articles should cover more sub-topics and areas. Still, since it is not the main method of the Casino SEO Case Study, I don’t want to cover things that can help “blackhat SEOs”, I will keep this section as is.
Semantic SEO and Casino Industry Websites
Semantic SEO is the process of search engine optimization based on semantics. Semantic Search Engines require semantic SEO for every vertical of digital marketing, websites, and web pages. There are more than 30 web pages with fundamental differences and millions of varying query types, along with trillions of query clusters. Thus, semantic SEO covers the entire search engine optimization process with information-tree or semantic content networks. To understand what a topical map is, and what a semantic content network is, read the articles below.
Topical Authority and Map
Semantic Content Network
Semantic SEO is implemented for the Casino Industry by extracting the relevant entities for the specific topic and contextual domains. The competitors’ existing structure, prioritization of the topics, creation of the topical borders, extracting of the query templates, and processing enough level of detail to create a contextual consolidation is the main methodology. The author training, content manager training, and Semantic Search Engine Optimization with entity-oriented search are implemented to create a Semantic SEO strategy for the Casino Industry.
How to Extract Related Entities for a Casino Website?
The industry borders and the website’s context are processed to extract the related entities for a Casino Website. A casino website can provide different gambling games, from sports betting to board games or card games. A casino website can offer slot and chance games for various geographies. Thus, the entity types that can be processed for a casino website are listed below.
Gambling Types
Gambling Games
Gambling Game Rules
Gambling Game Tips and Guidelines
Gambling Game Bonuses
Gambling Games for Specific Locales
Gambling Games for Specific Demographics
Online and Offline Casinos
Online and Offline Casino Attributes
The internal link flow, or the core section of the topical map, changes based on the needs of the specific Casino Website. Suppose the casino website is not an affiliate but entirely a new online casino. In that case, some of the sections for those entities are eliminated, and new types of entities are added.
During the Casino SEO Case Study, different topical maps, and sub-topical maps are created for casinos, casino types, gambling, gambling types, and rules along with the scientific approach for gambling.
How to Educate the Authors and Writers for Casino SEO?
To educate the authors and writers for Casino SEO, the sentence structures, phrase patterns, entity, and attribute pairs, order of facts, encapsulation of a context within a text block, context vectors, context vector flow, question formats, answer formats, and a certain type of semantic SEO related writing concepts are explained.
The Semantic SEO Authorship and Content Managership education for Casino SEO has taken more than 10 hours of lectures. Some of those lectures are put below as a repository screenshot.
How to Audit Authors’ Articles during a Casino SEO Project?
Three different phases and stages are determined to audit the Casino SEO articles. The first stage is that the authors write the articles based on the content briefs and guides. The second stage is the content manager and edit

[...truncated...]