404 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The 404 HTTP Status Code means that it is not found. In the 404 HTTP Status Code, the server has not observed anything matching the Request-URI. No sign is given of whether the condition is impermanent or long-lasting. The 404 HTTP Status Code is usually utilized when the server doesn’t wish to uncover precisely why the request has been rejected, or when no other response is pertinent. There are two methods expressed to utilize the 404 HTTP Status Code which are the GET and POST. Its difference from the 400 HTTP Status Codes is that it indicates that the server was unable to interpret the request due to invalid syntax, while the 404 HTTP Status Code means that the server couldn’t track down what was requested.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does the 404 HTTP Status Code Mean?
1.1.
How to Use 404 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
2.
How to Check 404 HTTP Status Code?
2.1.
Which HTTP Method is used with 404 HTTP Status Code?
3.
What are the Related HTTP Response Headers with 404 HTTP Status Code?
4.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of the 404 HTTP Status Code?
5.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to 404 HTTP Status Code?
What does the 404 HTTP Status Code Mean?
The 404 HTTP Status Code implies that the server can not track down the requested resource. In the program, this implies the URL isn’t perceived. In an API, the 404 HTTP Status Code can likewise imply that the endpoint is legitimate however the actual resource doesn’t exist. Servers may likewise send this response rather than 403 Forbidden HTTP Status to conceal the presence of the resource from an unapproved client. The 404 HTTP Status Code response is likely the most notable because of its successive event on the web.
How to Use 404 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
To use the 404 HTTP Status Code in a site, the web developer should leverage backend tools for the webserver for scaling, efficiency, and the capacity to respond to client requests and demands immediately. The 404 HTTP Status code with the “header” function may be used by a developer in JavaScript, Python, Ruby, PHP, Java, C#.Net, Perl, C++, Scala, and Kotlin. In using these tools, the web developers should begin by troubleshooting any potential client-side issues that could be causing this mistake.
How to Check 404 HTTP Status Code?
To check the 404 HTTP Status Code use the web browser network tab and developer tools for every resource that the client uses.
Which HTTP Method is used with 404 HTTP Status Code?
There are two methods that can be used with the 404 HTTP Status Code. See the list below.
The GET method is used in the 404 HTTP Header Status Code. The GET is an entity correlating to the particular request of resource and is delivered in the response.
The POST method is used in the 404 HTTP Status Code. The POST method sends data to the server in a package in a separate connection with the processing script.
What are the Related HTTP Response Headers with 404 HTTP Status Code?
There are related HTTP response headers with the 404 HTTP Status Code. The 404 HTTP Status Code’s related HTTP response headers are listed below.
411 Length Required HTTP Status Code: The
411 HTTP Status Code
is related to the 404 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The request was refused by the server because the Content-Length header field was not provided, despite the fact that it is required by the server.
409 Conflict HTTP Status Code: The
409 HTTP Status Code
is related to the 404 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. This response is issued when a request clashes with the server’s current status.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of the 404 HTTP Status Code?
You can see the table that shows the browser’s compatibility of the 404 HTTP Status Code below.
Browser Name
Browser Compatibility of 404  HTTP Status Code
Chrome
YES
Firefox
YES
Internet Explorer
YES
Opera
YES
Safari
YES
WebView Android
YES
Chrome Android
YES
Firefox for Android
YES
What are the other Similar Status Codes to 404 HTTP Status Code?
There are other similar HTTP Status Codes to the 404 HTTP Status Code. The following are listed below.
403 Forbidden HTTP Status Code: The
403 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 404 HTTP status Code because they are both client error responses. The 403 HTTP Status Code indicates that the client lacks access permissions to the material; in other words, it is unauthorized, and so the server will not provide the requested resource.
405 Method Not Allowed HTTP Status Code: The
405 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 404 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 405 HTTP Status Code indicates that the server is aware of the request method but the target resource does not support it. For instance, an API may not permit the use of DELETE to delete a resource.
406 Not Acceptable HTTP Status Code: The
406 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 404 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 406 HTTP Status Codes indicate that the response is delivered when the web server does not locate any content that meets the user agent’s criteria after completing server-driven content negotiation.
407 Proxy-Authentication Required HTTP Status Code: The 407 HTTP Status Code is similar to the 404 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The
407 HTTP Status Code
indicates that authentication must be performed through a proxy.
Author
Recent Posts
Follow SEO
Holistic SEO
SEO Research Department
at
Holistic SEO & Digital
Holistic SEO & Digital has been built by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR. Holistic SEO is the process of developing integrated digital marketing projects with every aspect including Coding, Natural Language Processing, Data Science, Page Speed, Digital Analytics, Content Marketing, Technical SEO, and Branding. Structured, Semantic Search Engine improves its ability to detect the real-world entities, today. Having a simple website is not enough anymore. To show that your brand is authoritative, trustworthy, and expert on its own niche, you need entity-based Search Engine Optimization Projects. Holistic SEO & Digital's main focus is on improving the brand's organic visibility and growth potential.
Follow SEO
Latest posts by Holistic SEO
(
see all
)
48 Online Shopping and Consumer Behavior Statistics, Facts and Trends
- August 22, 2023
B2B Marketing Statistics
- August 22, 2023
38 Podcast Statistics, Facts, and Trends
- August 22, 2023
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
TechSEO
404 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods
by Holistic SEO
time to read: 3 min
TechSEO
419 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
TechSEO
403 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
0
0
0