423 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The 423 HTTP Status Code means that the resource that is being accessed is locked. In the 423 HTTP Status Code, The response should contain a suitable precondition or postcondition code, for example, ‘lock-token-submitted’ or ‘no-clashing lock’. The 423 HTTP Status Code is used in circumstances where the client could possibly resolve the contention and resubmit the request. There is only one method expressed to utilize the 423 HTTP Status Code which is the POST method. Its distinction from the 400 HTTP Status Codes is that it shows that the server couldn’t interpret the request due to invalid syntax structure, while the 423 HTTP Status code is integrated with WebDAV’s locking component and is probably going to be treated as a conventional client error, which may not be useful.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does 423 HTTP Status Code Mean?
1.1.
How to Use 423 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
2.
How to Check 423 HTTP Status Code?
2.1.
Which HTTP Method is used with 423 HTTP Status Code?
3.
What are the Related HTTP Response Headers with 423 HTTP Status Code?
4.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of the 423 HTTP Status Code?
5.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to the 423 HTTP Status Code?
What does 423 HTTP Status Code Mean?
The 423 HTTP Status Code indicates that the method’s source or destination resource is locked. The 423 HTTP Status Code may or may not be relevant. It was created as part of WebDAV’s locking features, which allow clients to deliberately lock and unlock resources. The 423 HTTP Status Code is most often interpreted as a general client error, which may be ineffective. Having said that, the definition of 423 HTTP Status Code does not need WebDAV’s locking to be engaged.
How to Use 423 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
To use the 423 HTTP Status Code in a site, the web developer should leverage backend tools for the webserver for scaling, efficiency, and the capacity to respond to client requests and demands immediately. The 423 HTTP Status code with the “header” function may be used by a developer in JavaScript, Python, Ruby, PHP, Java, C#.Net, Perl, C++, Scala, and Kotlin. In using these tools, the web developers should differentiate the scenario from something like server downtime, and through this, the user may be able to resolve the problem and retry the request.
How to Check 423 HTTP Status Code?
To check the 423 HTTP Status Code use the web browser network tab and developer tools for every resource that the client uses.
Which HTTP Method is used with 423 HTTP Status Code?
There is only one method used in the 423 HTTP Status Code. The POST method is used in the 423 HTTP Status Code. The POST method sends data to the server in a package in a separate connection with the processing script.
What are the Related HTTP Response Headers with 423 HTTP Status Code?
There are related HTTP Response Headers with the 423 HTTP Status Code. Below are the related HTTP Response Headers with 423 HTTP Status Codes.
414 URI Too Long HTTP Status Code: The
414 HTTP Status Code
is related to the 423 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses.  The client’s URI is longer than the server is prepared to understand.
418 I’m a teapot HTTP Status Code:  The
418 HTTP Status Code
is related to the 423 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The server declines the request to make coffee in a teapot.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of the 423 HTTP Status Code?
The 423 HTTP Status Code is compatible with all browsers including Chrome, Edge, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Opera, Safari, and Webview Android.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to the 423 HTTP Status Code?
There are other similar HTTP Status Codes to the 423 HTTP Status Code. The following are listed below.
403 Forbidden HTTP Status Code: The
403 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 423 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 403 HTTP Status Code indicates that the client lacks access permissions to the material; in other words, it is unauthorized, and so the server will not provide the requested resource.
404 Not Found HTTP Status Code: The
404 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 423 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 404 HTTP Status Code indicates that the server has been unable to locate the requested resource. This indicates that the URL is not recognized by the browser. This can also signify that the endpoint is correct but the resource does not exist in the API. Additionally, servers may use this response rather than 403 Forbidden to conceal the existence of a resource from an unauthorized client. Due to its frequent presence on the web, this response code is likely the most well-known.
405 Method Not Allowed HTTP Status Code: The
405 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 423 HTTP Status code because they are both client error responses. The 405 HTTP Status Code indicates that the server is aware of the request method but the target resource does not support it. For instance, an API may not permit the use of DELETE to delete a resource.
407 Proxy-Authentication Required HTTP Status Code: The
407 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 423 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 407 HTTP Status Code indicates that authentication must be performed through a proxy.
Author
Recent Posts
Follow SEO
Holistic SEO
SEO Research Department
at
Holistic SEO & Digital
Holistic SEO & Digital has been built by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR. Holistic SEO is the process of developing integrated digital marketing projects with every aspect including Coding, Natural Language Processing, Data Science, Page Speed, Digital Analytics, Content Marketing, Technical SEO, and Branding. Structured, Semantic Search Engine improves its ability to detect the real-world entities, today. Having a simple website is not enough anymore. To show that your brand is authoritative, trustworthy, and expert on its own niche, you need entity-based Search Engine Optimization Projects. Holistic SEO & Digital's main focus is on improving the brand's organic visibility and growth potential.
Follow SEO
Latest posts by Holistic SEO
(
see all
)
48 Online Shopping and Consumer Behavior Statistics, Facts and Trends
- August 22, 2023
B2B Marketing Statistics
- August 22, 2023
38 Podcast Statistics, Facts, and Trends
- August 22, 2023
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
TechSEO
423 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods
by Holistic SEO
time to read: 3 min
TechSEO
208 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
TechSEO
422 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
0
0
0
