73 Most Difficult Words in English - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
There are numerous difficult words in English. Knowing them is essential in improving one’s communication, and writing skills. Difficult English words are certain words that are hard to read, spell, write, and understand. A good vocabulary makes it easier to communicate, and interact with others. Knowing difficult English words helps an individual to express themselves better. It makes one’s thoughts more accurate. One needs more than a definition to understand a word’s meaning. The word must be seen in how it was used in a sentence.  Seeing a word within a sentence’s context helps someone understand it better and how to use it correctly. English has numerous tricky words. It becomes impossible to remember all these words, particularly the difficult ones. Consistent studying and learning enable one to identify difficult words in English. Reading helps a lot in familiarizing one’s self with words that are new, and unfamiliar.
People sometimes avoid using difficult English words in daily conversations, for fear of being misunderstood. However, the only way to be more familiar with these difficult words is by using them regularly. Using difficult English words sharpens the mind and improves communication skills. The only way to understand complex English words is by facing them. Do not skip a paragraph that contains a difficult word when reading. Learn and understand its meaning instead. Constant reading makes a person gets exposed to a variety of English words, particularly the difficult ones. Difficult English words are challenging for many people because they do not encounter them regularly. The best way to understand the meaning of difficult words in English is by looking up their definition in the Dictionary.
Listed below are five of the Most Difficult Words in English.
Belie:
The word “belie” means to give a false representation. “Belie” originated from Middle English “belyen”, which means “to lie around.” “Belie” works in a sentence as a transitive verb.
Arrant:
The meaning of the word “arrant” is wholly, or complete. “Arrant” originated from the Old French “errant,” the present participle of “errer”, which means “to walk.”
Untoward:
The meaning of “untoward” is inconvenient. “Untoward” originated from the Old English “un” meaning “not.” The word “toward” was derived from Old English “toward,” which means “in the direction of. ”Untoward’ works as either a noun or an adjective in a sentence.
Byzantine:
The meaning of “Byzantine” is intricate, or complex.  “Byzantine” originated from the late Latin “byzantinus”, from Byzantium. “Untoward’ works as either a noun or an adjective in a sentence.
Conciliate:
The meaning of “conciliate” is to make peace with. “Conciliate” originated from the Latin “conciliatus”, the past participle of “conciliare “to bring together, unite in feelings.”
Contents of the Article
show
1.
1. Belie
2.
2. Arrant
3.
3. Untoward
4.
4. Byzantine
5.
5. Conciliate
6.
6. Equivocate
7.
7. Truculent
8.
8. Diatribe
9.
9. Quisling
10.
10. Artless
11.
11.Blinkered
12.
12. Maudlin
13.
13. Invective
14.
14. Remonstrate
15.
15. Sartorial
16.
16. Sybarite
17.
17. Inundate
18.
18. Curmudgeon
19.
19. Anodyne
20.
20. Gaffe
21.
21. Vie
22.
22. Decimation
23.
23. Garrulous
24.
24. Hubris
25.
25. Dovetail
26.
26. Impetuous
27.
27. Circumlocution
28.
28. Surreptitious
29.
29. Peripatetic
30.
30. Magisterial
31.
31. Asperity
32.
32. Decry
33.
33. Puerile
34.
34. Incontrovertible
35.
35. Inviolate
36.
36. Puissant
37.
37. Cosset
38.
38. Eclectic
39.
39. Iconoclast
40.
40. Anachronism
41.
41. Enormity
42.
42. Dolorous
43.
43. Solicitous
44.
44. Impugn
45.
45. Despot
46.
46. Splenetic
47.
47. Abrogate
48.
48. Inveterate
49.
49. Officious
50.
50. Pillory
51.
51. Abject
52.
52. Candor
53.
53. Cogent
54.
54. Dearth
55.
55. Evanescent
56.
56. Cognizant
57.
57. Futuous (Fatuous)
58.
58. Mendacious
59.
59. Disparate
60.
60. Ubiquitous
61.
61. Capitulate
62.
62. Divisive
63.
63. Extant
64.
64. Fetter
65.
65. Hegemony
66.
66. Inoculate
67.
67. Linchpin
68.
68. Mores
69.
69. Pariah
70.
70. Reprobate
71.
71. Worcestershire
72.
72. Onomatopoeia
73.
73. Sesquipedalian
74.
What are the Reasons for Existing Difficult Words in English?
74.1.
How to Determine Difficult Words in English?
74.2.
How do Content Writers use Difficult English Words?
74.3.
Do English Difficult Words Affect SEO and UX?
74.4.
Do Difficult English Words affect User Experience?
1. Belie
The word “Belie” comes from Middle English “belyen” or “beliggen.” Old English “belican” or  “bilicgan” means (to lie around, surround, hedge in, or encompass). “Belie” means to show something false or hide something, such as an emotion. Contradict is one synonym for the word “belie.” The term “approve” is the antonym for “belie.” “Belie” is used in a sentence as a transitive verb.  An example sentence of “belie.” “Her cheerful appearance belies her feelings.” The word “belie” was used to describe something that is not true, which pertains to feelings.  “Belie” is among the difficult words in English because it is not commonly used by many.
2. Arrant
‘“Arrant” means extreme, or being notorious without moderation. The word “Arrant” comes from a variant of errant, from Middle English “erarunt,” from Anglo-Norman “erraunt,” from Old French errant, the present participle of “errer” (“to walk”). Although arrant is a variant of errant, their modern meanings have diverged. “Arrant” is used in the sense of “complete; downright, while errant means “roving around.” The synonym of “arrant” is complete. The antonym o the word ‘arrant” is “suspicious.” An example sentence of “arrant.” “All the rumors being spread about Kim are nothing but arrant.” “Arrant” is used in a sentence as an adjective to say how bad something is. “Arrant” is one of the most difficult words in English. It is not an easy and common word that appears regularly.
3. Untoward
“Untoward” means improper or unseemly. It has enjoyed this meaning since the early 1520s. The origin of the word “untoward” comes from the prefix of negotiation, Old English “un.” From Proto-Germanic “un,” from PIE “n” (source of Sanskrit a-, an- “not,” Greek a-, an-, Old Irish an-, Latin in-), combining form of PIE root “ne”-”not.” Often the nature of (such as untruth for “lie”). The most abundant of English prefixes, freely and generally used in Old English, were form more than 1,000 compounds. The word “toward” comes from Old English “toward” “in the direction of,” prepositional use of “toward” (adjective) “coming, facing, approaching, “from to (see to) + – ward.  One synonym for the word “untoward” is “unexpected,” while its antonym is “expected.” “Toward” is one of the difficult words in English.  The adjective “untoward” is used in a sentence to express something inappropriate or offensive. An example sentence of the word “untoward”, is “I hope nothing untoward will happen on the event.”
4. Byzantine
“Byzantine” involves the Byzantine Empire or the Eastern Orthodox Church. Another definition of “Byzantine” is something incredibly complicated, and usually relates to a great deal of administrative detail. “Byzantine” comes from the late Latin “byzantinus”, itself from Byzantium. The metaphorical senses gave rise to the reputation for palace intrigue of the Byzantium imperial court. The word “complicated is synonymous with “Byzantine.” The antonym of “Byzantine” is “simple.” The adjective ‘Byzantine” is used in sentences relating to complex, or complicated. The noun “Byzantine” is used in a sentence when referring to a native or citizen of Byzantium.  An example sentence of the word “Byzantine” is “We are engaged in a Byzantine process this evening,” and “Julie became more confused as she walked through the Byzantine maze.”
5. Conciliate
The word “Conciliate” means to stop someone from being angry, or to pacify. “Conciliate” comes from the Latin “conciliatus”, the past participle of “conciliare “to bring together, unite in feelings,” from “concilium”, “a meeting, or gathering,” from an assimilated form of “com” “together, together with.” The earlier verb was Middle English concile “to reconcile” from the late 14th century. The synonym of “conciliate” is appeased, while its antonym is “irritate.” “Conciliate” is used in a sentence as a verb to overcome distrust, or to reconcile. An example sentence of the word “conciliate” is “Mayor George hoped that by calling them to his councils, he should conciliate the opposition.”
6. Equivocate
The word “equivocate” means to use ambiguous, or vague expressions.” The origin of “equivocate” comes from the late 15th century, from Medieval Latin equivocatus, the past participle of equivocare “to call by the same name, be called by the same name, have the same sound. ” “Equivocate” is synonymous with the word  “fudge.” The antonym of “equivocate” is “to be honest.” The verb ‘equivocate” is used in a sentence to deceive, or mislead, someone. An example sentence of the word “equivocate” is, “Please do not equivocate about this subject; we need to make a plan.” “Equivocate” is one of the most difficult words in English because it is not a common term used daily.
7. Truculent
“Truculent” means quick to argue, or aggressively defiant. The origin of the word “trulucent” dates back to the 1530s, from Latin trulculentus meaning “fierce, savage, and cruel.” From trux (genitive trucis) “fierce, rough, wild,”. It has been used in English since the 16th century to describe a person or a thing that is cruel, and ferocious. The synonym of “truculent” is “defiant,” while its antonym is “amiable.” The word “truculent” is an adjective used in a sentence to describe someone who is quick to argue. An example sentence of the word “truculent”, is “He is always in a truculent mood.”  Not many people understood the meaning of “truculent” because it is not a common word. It is one of the most difficult English words.
8. Diatribe
“Diatribe” is a verbal attack against someone or something. The origin of “diatribe” started way back in the 1640s from the French diatribe, and directly from the Latin diatriba “learned discussion.” From the Greek diatribe “employment, study,” in Plato, “discourse,” literally “a wasting of time.” The modern definition “a strain of insult, a bitter, and violent criticism” by 1804, from the French. “Diatribe” is synonymous with “tirade.” The antonym of “diatribe” is “compliment.” “Diatribe” refers to a disrespectful speech or form of writing. The word “diatribe” is among the most difficult English words and is not commonly found in contemporary contexts. A “diatribe” nowadays, is less formal than a rant, made for criticism, employing humor, and sarcasm. An example sentence of the word “diatribe” is “The book is a diatribe against social media.”
9. Quisling
The word ‘quisling” originated from “national traitor,” particularly during World War II in Nazi-occupied countries. It comes from the word “collaborationist,”, from Vidkun Quisling (1887-1945), a Norwegian fascist politician who led the puppet government during the German occupation of Norway in World War II. The traitor was shot because of treason after the German defeat. “Quisling” was first used in the London Times on April 15, 1940, in a Swedish context. The synonym of ‘quisling” is “backstabber.” The antonym of “quisling” is “patriot.” “Quisling” is used in a sentence as a noun, often attributive to a traitor. An example sentence of “quisling” is “All quislings would be punished without mercy.”
10. Artless
The word “artless’ is defined as without effort or without skill. The history o the word “artless” started in the 1580s, “unskillful,” from “art” and “less.” The word ‘art” originated from early 13c, which means “skill as a result of learning.” From Old French art, from Latin artem (nominative ars), “work of art; practical skill; a craft. The word “less” came from Old English “leas” “free (from) false, feigned,” from Proto_Germanic “lausaz.” the synonym of ‘artless” is “ingenou.” The antonym of the word “artless” is “sophisticated.” The adjective “artless” is used in a sentence about lacking art or knowledge. ‘Artless” generally denotes an appearance of utter naturalness. The first known use o the word “artless’ was in 1586. An example sentence of the word “artless” is, “The diction is simple; however, the writing is artless.”
11.Blinkered
“Blinkered” means narrow-minded, or having a limited understanding. The first known use of the word “blinkered” was in 1838. “Blinkered” is used in a sentence as an adjective to describe someone with a limited understanding of something. The origin of “blinkered” comes from the figurative sense, from horses being fitted with blinders to limit the range of their vision, in 1849. “Blinkered” is an adjective used in a sentence when describing a narrow-minded person. An example sentence of “blinkered” is, “His worst qualities are that he is blinkered most o the time.” “Blinkered” is considered one of the most difficult English words because it is British slang.
12. Maudlin
“Maudlin” means self-pitying, or feeling sorry for yourself. The origin of the word “maudlin” comes from the Middle English proper name Maudelen (early 14c), from Magdalene (Old French Madelaine), a woman’s name, which was believed to be similar to the repentant sinner forgiven by Jesus Christ. “Magdalene” was often shown crying as a sign of repentance in paintings. This association led to the constant portrayal of Mary Magdalene as a weeping  penitent. Even the name Magdalene suggested sad emotions to many native English speakers. The synonym of “maudlin” is “emotional.” The antonym of the word “maudlin”  is  “unemotional.” The adjective “maudlin” is used in a sentence to describe someone who is effusively sentimental. An example sentence of ‘maudlin” is “The Governor made a compassionate speech, without being maudlin.”
13. Invective
The word “invective” is defined as something abusive, or insulting. The

[...truncated...]
