Digital Marketing Statistics: List of Digital Marketing Facts for 2023 - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
Digital Marketing Statistics involve the facts and dynamics of the digital marketing types, and efforts with numeric values. Digital marketing statistics demonstrate the changes and the trends for the online user behaviors for shopping, advertising, or searching. Digital marketing statistics are created by digital marketing research and education sources and organizations. A digital marketing statistic can be acquired via surveys, or research on a real-world data set. Digital marketing statistics contain different digital marketing genres such as SEO Statistics, Social Media Marketing Statistics, or Sales Statistics. The list of digital marketing statistics can be found below.
Social Media Marketing Statistics involves the facts and stats for social media platforms and users.
Sales Statistics involves the facts and stats related to shopping behaviors and the sale events.
Email Marketing Statistics involves the facts and stats related to the email openning and conversions.
Advertising Statistics involves the facts and stats related to the channels and techniques of advertisement.
Marketing Technology Statistics involves the facts and stats for automation, tracking and analysis technologies.
Lead Generation Statistics involves the facts and stats related to the landing pages, forms and lead acqusition.
Video Marketing Statistics involves the facts and stats for video watching habits for online consumers.
Content Marketing Statistics involves the facts and stats for content consumption and demand.
FOMO Statistics involves the facts and stats for fear of missing and online learning.
E-commerce Statistics involves the facts and stats for ecommecre technologies, websites and behaviors.
Conversion Rate Statistics involves the facts and stats related to the conversion behaviours and factors.
Online Shopping Statistics involves the facts and stats for shopping behaviors and necessities for online platforms.
SEO Statistics involves the facts and stats related to the search engines, optimization efforts and the user search behaviors.
Social Proof Statistics involves the facts and stats related to the crowdsourcing, social media effect for the trust.
Mobile Consumer Statistics involves the facts and stats related to consumer and online user behaviors over mobile devices.
eCommerce Statistics involves the facts and stats related to the online eCommerce behaviors and dimensions.
Social Selling Statistics involves the facts and stats related to the socially improved channels.
Podcast Statistics involves the facts and stats related to the podcast publication, podcast listening and ownership.
B2B Marketing Statistics involves the facts and stats related to the B2B Behaviors, B2B Sales and Marketing.
Behavioral Statistics involves the facts and stats related to how people read, shop, or search online.
Digital Marketing Statistics demonstrate the prominence of the data, research, and development for understanding the users, shoppers, methodologies, techniques, technologies, and concepts for online marketing.
https://www.getrevue.co/profile/koraygubur
Contents of the Article
show
1.
1. Social Media Marketing Statistics
2.
2. Sales Statistics
3.
3. Email Marketing Statistics
4.
4. Advertising Statistics
5.
5. Marketing Technology Statistics
6.
6. Lead Generation Statistics
7.
7. Video Marketing Statistics
8.
8. Content Marketing Statistics
9.
9. FOMO Statistics
10.
10. E-commerce Statistics
11.
11. Conversion Rate Statistics
12.
11. Online Shopping Statistics
13.
12. SEO Statistics
14.
13. Social Proof Statistics
15.
14. Mobile Consumer Statistics
16.
15. eCommerce Statistics
17.
16. Social Selling Statistics
18.
17. Podcast Statistics
19.
18. B2B Marketing Statistics
20.
19. Behavioral Statistics
21.
What are the other digital marketing statistics and facts?
22.
What are the Sources of Digital Marketing Statistics?
23.
Last Thoughts on Digital Marketing Statistics and Holistic SEO
1. Social Media Marketing Statistics
Social Media statistics
involve the social media platforms and users to understand their behaviors with numeric values. The social media marketing statistics for 2022 can be seen below.
94% of Digital Marketers use Facebook. Source: Social Media Examiner
72% of Digital Marketers use Facebook for marketing. Source: Social Media Examiner
2 out of 3 marketers state that Facebook (including Instagram and Whatsapp) is their primary digital marketing platform. Source: Social Media Examiner
Generation Z members communicate with a brand at least once a week, via social media. Source: SproutSocial
If users have good communication with a brand on social media, they recommend the company with a rate of 71%. Source: Ambassador
Only 5% of adults trust content on social media. Source: PRG
The 18-34 age group of users watches a video on a social media platform at least once a week. Source: Animoto
If the CEO of a company uses social media, there is a 77% higher probability of purchase. Source: eMarketer
64% of digital marketers spend 6 hours a week on social media, for 41% this time frame is 11 hours. Source: Social Media Examiner
More than 2 billion messages move between brands and users every month. Source: GeoMarketing
93% of purchasing decisions are influenced by social media. Source: Ironpaper
90% of B2C companies state that social media is the most popular content marketing method. Source: Ironpaper
90% of companies say that social media raises their profile, and 75% say it generates more traffic. Source: Vendasta
If social media is a part of the consumer journey, the conversion rate increases with a probability of 129%. Source: Deloitte
89% of companies’ social media messages are ignored. Source: SproutSocial
7 out of 8 messages users send to companies are left unanswered for at least 72 hours. Source: SproutSocial
13% of small businesses use social media for communication. Source: GoDaddy
Infographics are shared and interacted 3 times more on social media than other types of sharing. Source: Lucidpress
9 out of 10 mothers are social media users (for the US). Source: Edison Research
81% of marketers state that their traffic has increased after 6 weeks of social media content campaigns. Source: Jigsaw Recruitment
The biggest benefit of Social Media is awareness with 87%, more traffic with 78%, more leads with 64%. Source: Social Media Examiner
45% of marketers state that social media is very effective for marketing, and 29% say it is decisively effective. Source: Buffer
According to Inbound Marketing, Social Media generates 100% more leads-to-closes. Source: HubSpot
78% of small businesses get 25% of their customers through social media. Source: Marketo
93% of digital marketers use social media for their companies. Source: Marketo
88% or more of companies are on social media for marketing. Source: Adweek
83% of marketers say social media use seems important to their CEO. Source: Adweek
If an employee of a company makes a post for his company, the click rate increases by 100%. Source: Ironpaper
53% of digital marketers do not measure their success on social media. Source: Awareness
Articles are the 3 most used content formats in social media with 27%, videos 26%, and images 24%. Source: Smart Insights
49% of digital marketers consider Facebook platforms essential for digital marketing. Source: Social Media Examiner
Users spend an average of 2 hours on social media platforms. Source: The Telegraph UK
Thanks to social media ads, users can act 40% closer to companies and are open to purchasing. Source: Infusionsoft
23% of all user time is spent on social media. Source: Content Marketing Institute
70% of Instagram posts are not visible. Source: independent
Ages 18-34 are 61% more active on Instagram. Source: Statista
In the US, 60% of Instagram users have an annual income of over $100,000. Source: Statista
There are over 35 million profiles on Instagram. Source: TechCrunch
The number of influencer marketing posts on Instagram has grown to over 5 million annually, and it’s growing exponentially. Source: eMarketer
Long-form Landing Pages generate 220% more leads. Source:MarketingExperiments
84% of digital marketers say they will start at least one influencer campaign. Source: Smart Insights
48% of digital marketers say they will increase their marketing budget for influencer marketing. Source: Linqia
81% of millennials check their Twitter accounts every day. Source: Twitter
Tweets with images get 150% more retweets. Source: Adweek
On Twitter, companies with 51-100 followers generate 106% more traffic than companies with 25 or fewer followers. Source: HubSpot
LinkedIn is 277% more efficient at generating leads than Facebook. Source: HubSpot
50% of LinkedIn users are 50% more active in making a purchase from a company they interact with on LinkedIn. Source: Ironpaper
Worldwide, more than 50 million small businesses own Facebook Pages. Source: Facebook
53.7% of Facebook users are between the ages of 35 and 64. Source: Statista
75% of its users check Facebook daily. Source: Business2Community
75% of users use Facebook for professional purposes. Source: Hootsuite
Facebook is the second platform with the best ROI after Google. Source: eMarketer
2. Sales Statistics
Sales statistics are to understand how people are convinced to buy a product.
The sales statistics
and facts for 2023 can be seen below.
72% of the companies can’t access their revenue targets if they have less than 50 sales opportunities per month. Source: Sales Insights Lab
19% of the online shoppers try to connect with a salesperson if they are in the awareness stage. Source: Sale Insights Lab
60% of the online shoppers want to perform a buy activity during the consideration stage. Source: Sale Insights Lab
20% of the online shoppers want to communicate if they determined whether they want to buy the product or not. Source: HubSpot
Most of the sales emails are not opened. 24% of the sales emails are opened. Source: Topohq
77.3% of the digital marketers say that their company provides 25% of the leads to them. Source: Holistic SEO & Digital
63% of the digital marketers believe that the online meetings are effective as much as the in-person meetings.
“Did I Catch you at a bad time” decreases the chance of sale 40% while “How are you?” introduction question improves the sale chance 3.4 times. Source: Gong
According to the digital marketers, the biggest challenge for the salepeople is Establishing Urgency with 42%. Source: Holistic SEO & Digital
According to the digital marketers, the biggest challenge for the salepeople is Getting in touch with prospects with 37%. Source: Holistic SEO & Digital
According to the digital marketers, the biggest challenge for the salepeople is Overcoming price objections 35%. Source: Holistic SEO & Digital
94% of the companies reported that the sale effciency didn’t change during the pandemic, or improved. 27% of the companies reported that the sale performence improved in remote sales. For the 67% of the companies reported that remote sale teams didn’t affect the sale efficiency during pandemic. Source: Membrain
41.8% of the United States Workforce work remotely. Source: UpWork
26.7% of the Americans work from home in 2021. Source: UpWork
36.2 million Ammericans will work remotely in 2025. Source: UpWork
Digital Marketing Budgets make up 3.1 percent of total sales. Source: Gartner
Companies spend 12% of their annual sales on marketing. Source: Gartner
33% of companies say they fail to realize which channel is better for their sales. Source: Focus Research
Wholesale buyers of online technology products find their suppliers on Google at a rate of 83%. Source: MarketingSherpa
80% of companies that fail their sales objectives have fewer than 10,000 monthly visitors. Source: HubSpot
71% of companies successfully complete their sales objectives using the buyer persona. Source: Cintell
3. Email Marketing Statistics
Email marketing statistics
involve the email opening rate, email conversions, and email marketing behaviors. The email marketing-related stats and facts for 2022 can be seen below.
53% of emails are opened on mobile devices. Source: Campaign MonitorIn
The last two years, the rate of opened emails has increased by 53% of emails are opened on mobile devices. Source: Campaign Monitor
In the last two years, the rate of opened emails has increased by more than 80%. Source: Adirondack
80.3% of non-mobile-optimized emails are deleted. Source: CustomerThink
Only 33% of email subscribers read emails regularly. Source: Informz
78% of email subscribers think that companies send emails too often and unsubscribe. Source: Mann & Go
40% of email followers want emails to be informational, not marketing. Source: Adweek
68% of email readers mark an email as spam at least once based on the subject line alone. Source: Heartbrain
Only 50% of users expect emails from their favorite brands every week. Source: Statista
61% of consumers say they will only tolerate weekly emails at certain times. Source: Marketing Sherpa
Only 12% of users use a separate inbox for business. Source: Marketing Sherpa
66% of users want to receive HTML-edited emails, while 34% prefer plain text HTML. Source: HubSpot
If a customer receives an email from a company they have shopped with before, they spend 82% more. Source: Ascend2
Over 240 billion emails are sent every day. It only opens about 3%. Source: The Radicati Group
73% of consumers prefer email as a method of communication with companies. Source: Constant Contact
The percentage of companies that do not perform email marketing will be decreasing.
45% of people leave direct emails unopened. Source: Statista
4. Advertising Statistics
Advertising statistics contain facts and numeric values related to the advertisement technologies, budgets, spending, and results. The 2022
advertising statistics
can be found below.
The Global Advertising Budget for digital mar

[...truncated...]