SaaS SEO Strategies and Guide
Skip to content
SaaS (Software as a service) SEO refers to an SEO Project and effort for improving the organic search performance of a SaaS website. SaaS B2B and SaaS B2C SEOs differ from each other in terms of SEO strategies and tactics. SaaS SEO takes support from the different sub-verticals of SEO, such as Local SEO, Semantic SEO, and Technical SEO. SaaS SEO Guide explains which SEO verticals, methods, strategies, and tactics are implemented to increase the SaaS B2B and B2C companies’ organic search performance, along with user experience and conversion rates.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What to know about SaaS SEO Guide?
2.
Why do SaaS Businesses Need different SEO Methods?
3.
How does Semantic SEO help SaaS SEO?
4.
How to Create a Topical Map for SaaS SEO?
5.
How to Use Technical SEO for SaaS SEO?
6.
How does Local SEO help SaaS SEO?
6.1.
How does EAT Help for SaaS SEO?
6.2.
How to Use Local SEO for SaaS Companies?
6.2.1.
Why is having a Proper Third-party Review and Corporate Information Points Helpful for E-A-T and SaaS SEO?
6.3.
How to Use Social Media and Community Management for SaaS SEO?
7.
Email Marketing and SaaS SEO
8.
How do Brand SERP and Knowledge Panel Management help for SaaS SEO?
8.1.
How do Comparison Product Reviews help for SaaS SEO?
8.2.
How Does PageRank Help for SaaS SEO?
8.3.
Does Exact Match Domains help for SaaS SEO?
9.
Do Exact Match Domains work for Subdomains of SaaS Websites?
10.
Should SaaS Websites have a Forum for their users and SEO?
10.1.
Should SaaS Websites have a Social Media Group on Facebook, Twitter, or Reddit?
10.2.
Should SaaS SEO Projects use Influencer Marketing?
10.3.
Should SaaS SEO include YouTube SEO?
11.
SaaS SEO Case Studies and Results
11.1.
Technical SEO, and Design-Related Improvements for SaaS SEO Case Study Sample
12.
What does SaaS SEO Mean?
12.1.
Which SEO Verticals are better for SaaS Companies?
13.
Does Every SaaS Business need SEO?
13.1.
B2B SaaS Company SEO
13.2.
B2C SaaS Company SEO
14.
How to Train SaaS Company Teams for SEO?
15.
How to Create a SaaS SEO Strategy?
16.
Why are Conversion Funnels Important for SaaS SEO?
17.
How Long does it take to rank a SaaS Website with SEO?
18.
Do SaaS Websites need too much organic traffic?
19.
What are the Other SaaS SEO Campaign Examples based on SaaS Guide?
19.1.
SMS Marketing SaaS SEO Case Study with 700% Organic Click, and %224 Organic Impression Increase
20.
Why is Ranking Signal Consolidation important for SaaS SEO?
20.1.
How does Content Pruning Help for Ranking Signal Consolidation?
20.2.
How does Technical SEO Help for Ranking Signal Consolidation?
20.3.
Why Understand Ranking State for SaaS SEO?
21.
Last Thoughts on SaaS SEO and Holistic SEO
What to know about SaaS SEO Guide?
SaaS SEO Guide explains search engine optimization verticals such as semantic, technical, local, and brand entity reputation via real-world SEO case studies, examples, and definitive explanations. The SaaS SEO Guide involves 36 subsections with over 14,000 words to explain the Software as a Service SEO in detail such as E-A-T, Anchor Texts, Internal Links, Page Speed and Crawl Efficiency Improvements, Topical Maps and Semantic Content Networks along with thought-leadership, and trust signals for organic growth. The real-world SEO Case Studies for SaaS SEO involves two main SEO projects from network security and SMS marketing as examples of their successes. The quick organic growth with SaaS SEO strategies and tactics through real-world experienced SEO case studies are demonstrated below with Google Search Console screenshots.
SaaS SEO Case Study Example.
The data that has been shared belongs to Sunnyvalley.io which is a SaaS Company. During the SaaS SEO Tutorial, you can see the 4 months, 3 months, and last 6 months’ organic search comparisons to understand the SaaS SEO strategies.
1 month later version of the same SaaS Website for Organic Search Performance from Google Search Console with SaaS SEO Methods and Strategies are above.
Another 1 month later, GSC Graph for visualization of the SaaS SEO Case Study performance and methodology success. Another, %40 organic clicks and 35% organic Impression increase were acquired for SaaS search queries.
Another 1 month later, 6 months comparison on Google Search Console organic traffic performance graphic demonstrates over 100% organic visibility growth for SaaS SEO.
1 Month Later, the Project exceeded 1000 organic clicks daily, and 100,000 impressions. The source has grown over 637.5% year-over-year comparison for 3 months according to the naked Google Search Console Data.
The 6 months performance comparison of Sunnyvalley.io is visible below with an over 110% organic click, and 350% organic impression increase.
The overall 11 months of comparison with the previous month is visible below with the Google Search Console Data as stored.
Three weeks later, version of the same SaaS SEO Project is below.
The last 16 months of organic search performance change of the SaaS SEO Company demonstrates that the traffic increase continued, and the company became a major authority within its industry.
The 2023 March Broad Core Algorithm Update Effect and latest situation of the specific SEO Case Study for 6 months comparison for organic search performance is above.
The 2023 March Broad Core Algorithm Update Effect and latest situation of the specific SEO Case Study.
The three weeks later version for the Organic Search Improvements from SEMrush for SaaS SEO Project.
Why do SaaS Businesses Need different SEO Methods?
The reasons for SaaS Businesses to use different methods are listed below.
SEO Provides Authority for Targeted Audience of SaaS: SaaS Businesses target specific audiences with a high level of expertise.
SEO Explains the Function of SaaS: SaaS Businesses solve a specific problem in the return for a recurring income.
SEO Creates Difference in Competition for SaaS: SaaS Businesses have strong competitors in their own industries, thus they need branding.
SEO Covers all Conversion Funnel Paths and Steps for SaaS: SaaS Businesses usually focus on end-of-the-funnel content and search queries, but user retention and community management are necessary perspectives for SaaS Businesses.
SEO trains the SaaS Employees to Understanding Search Engines: SaaS Businesses have proper developers and engineers, but typically, their marketers or marketing efforts are not holistic, or omnichannel.
SEO sets KPIs for SaaS: SEO defines the KPIs for a SaaS Company and its conversion paths. Scrolling, clicking, emailing, navigating, and other search behaviors are some different types of KPIs for analyzing the users’ preferences for the SaaS.
SEO Defines Personas and Needs for SaaS: Every SaaS has different Personas within its targeted audience. SaaS audience personas vary based on the industry, and SEO helps in catching and converting these different personas.
SEO helps with user retention and conversion rate optimization for SaaS: User retention for SaaS helps with community management and conversion. SEO provides better returning visitors and user loyalty for SaaS businesses by covering the surface of the relevant section of the open web.
SEO optimizes the Landing Pages for SaaS: To help a landing page to perform its purpose, SEO helps in improving the SaaS businesses.
SEO helps for optimization of Local Visits and Search: SEO helps with Local Search Optimization to increase the local and audience relevance of the topic.
SEO helps with the Branding of SaaS: SEO creates branded search terms and directs traffic to the brand. SEO helps in optimizing a web entity’s other brand identity points, such as social media accounts, or advertising articles, as in surround sound campaigns.
SEO creates direct traffic and brand search demand for SaaS: SEO provides a permanent baseline for the company to protect it from possible Broad Core Algorithm Update’s negative effects, or any kind of spam algorithm update by creating brand prominence.
How does Semantic SEO help SaaS SEO?
Semantic SEO helps SaaS SEO to create a topical map and semantic content network. SaaS SEO needs Semantic SEO because explaining the concepts from the main topic of the SaaS is a must to create brand relevance between the audience and the topic.
SaaS SEO Case Study Example data. During the SaaS SEO Guide, an example SEO Case Study data and methodology is shared.
A search engine can understand which SaaS businesses are more authoritative for a topic, or trustworthy, by looking at the query and selection logs. Query logs contain the queries from users, while selection logs contain the selections from users for the SERP behaviors. A brand that satisfies the queries for the problems that they solve, and a brand that appears after the “generic terms” can signal topical relevance and authority faster.
The channel difference comparison after the SaaS SEO Campaign. The Organic Channel has dominated the traffic acquisition.
Semantic SEO helps in creating a Topical Map and Semantic Content Networks for providing Topical Authority. In this context, for every SaaS business, there should be at least 1 topical map and 1 semantic content network that covers the queries, search needs, and possible search activities.
Channel traffic source comparison. Organic Traffic has increased by over 400%, and it provided better referral, social and direct traffic stickiness.
The 3 months comparison for all users from the Universal Google Analytics data is below.
The All Users increase is related to the Organic Traffic increase since the organic traffic returns to the website via other channels such as direct traffic.
The
How to Create a Topical Map for SaaS SEO?
To create a topical Map for a SaaS Business, the problem that the SaaS solves should be grasped. If the SaaS business provides a “firewall”, the topical map should take the “network security” to the center. If the SaaS business focuses on “cheap flight tickets”, “travel finance” should be at the center. But, at the same time, sometimes SaaS Businesses might need two different semantic content networks and topical maps.
Last 4 months comparison of SaaS SEO Case Study Website. It demonstrates a 100% organic traffic increase.
To create a topical map for SaaS SEO, a main and macro context, and a micro but specific context should be chosen. The second topical map can provide a deepened context for a specific entity with different types of connections. For example, a topical map for network security can be deepened for only the “firewall types”. All the topical map nodes should be connected to the conversion points and landing pages to support them with link flow.
The Source Organic Session and Direct Traffic show that the organic searchers come to the website from a search engine result page, and then, they come directly. It is a clear signal of brand power and satisfaction.
To create a Semantic Content Network for a SaaS Business, the semantic content network should focus on conversions and information gaps along with accuracy. Factual, and unseen information for the industry, with higher clarity, will be useful and helpful for providing a better topical authority.
The organic traffic increase and its effect on social, direct, and referral channels can be seen above for SaaS SEO.
Semantic SEO helps with conversions by providing factual content while removing the fluff from the text. It contains accurate factual information with concise writing. To create a better semantic content network, the NLP systems of the search engines should be understood. The semantic network that is created for a SaaS has to be richer, more accurate, and clear to digest and serve.
October 2022 and September 2022 Overall Search Traffic Increase
How to Use Technical SEO for SaaS SEO?
To use Technical SEO for SaaS SEO Project, the cost of retrieval and indexation signals should be used properly. The cost of retrieval refers to the cost that happens during the crawling and indexing process.
The cost of retrieval includes the cost of crawling, rendering, evaluating, associating, indexing, and serving a document for providing value to the users. In this context, the quality of the document in terms of content, and amount of cost balance each other. PageRank, or the quality of the information and engagement on the web page, change the cost of retrieval positively.
The SaaS Company homepage screenshots sample.
Technical SEO helps with crawling and indexation signals by providing lighter, and faster crawling paths to the search engine crawlers. Optimization of the SEO-related HTML Tags, by aligning the indexing signals, optimization of crawl requests, and robots.txt, sitemap, and other technical SEO elements help for SaaS SEO.
Keep the website crawlable and cheaper to be crawled by search engines.
Keep only the necessary URLs on the website sitemap for indexation.
Clean all the internal links, they all should point to a 200 status code URL that can be indexed.
Do not dilute the Ranking Signal by repeating the same topic repeatedly on different web pages.
Do not bloat the website size with unnecessary announcements, or news articles.
Keep the HTML Requests higher than Resource requests.
Keep the request count lower as much as possible.
Decrease the rendering time and cost for the web pages.
Optimize the URL Parameters to prevent unnecessary URLs to be logged in the crawl queue.
The main Technical SEO improvements above for a SaaS project provide a better cost of retrieval, crawlability, and indexation for the websites. To learn more about the cost of retrieval, read the related Importance of Cost of Retrieval SEO Case Study.
Social Media Optimization for SaaS SEO and session duration changes should be examined.
You can compare the numeric values for SaaS SEO and Social Media Optimization effect for the SaaS SEO performance increase.
How does Local SEO help SaaS SEO?
Local SEO Helps to provide a local penetration for the brands. Local SEO is helpful 

[...truncated...]