Toward vs. Towards: Difference between Them for Grammar and Meaning - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
“What are the key differences between Toward and Towards?” The key distinction between “toward” and “towards” is the geographical English language. “Toward” is an English term that came from the American vocabulary and is more commonly utilized within the USA, Canada, and the rest of the English-speaking nations. On the other hand, “towards” is an English term from the British language and is more commonly applied in most European countries and Australia. “Toward” has gained popularity compared to “towards” due to its simplicity and is usually placed in texts written in English. Regardless of the variation of “toward” and “towards” when it comes to forming construction and preference, they still refer to exactly the same meaning.
Listed below are the key differences between “toward” and “towards.”
“Toward” is an American English word.
“Toward” is spelled without the letter “s.”
“Toward” is more widely used across the globe.
“Towards” is a British English word.
“Towards” is spelled with the letter “s.”
“Towards” is a less popular term.
People mix “toward” and “towards” in the sentences of their texts and articles because they think that these two words are allowed to be used in all contexts. The words “toward” and “towards” have designated countries and audiences to target. Hence, using “toward” and “towards” interchangeably in content, especially formal ones is not recommended as it causes confusion to the readers. There are various types of readers including those who are not well-knowledgeable about the differences and similarities of each word. Misuse of “toward” and “towards” results in the misconception that they are incorrect spellings and do not possess any meaning.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does “Toward” mean in English?
1.1.
How to use “Toward” word in sentences properly?
2.
What does “Towards” mean in English?
2.1.
How to use “Towards” in English Sentences properly?
2.1.1.
Should you use a comma before or after “Towards”?
3.
Which is usually used in a sentence “Toward” or “Towards”?
4.
How to Differentiate “Toward” and “Towards” during speaking?
4.1.
Do people confuse “Toward” and “Towards” while speaking?
5.
How to Remember the difference between “Toward” and “Towards”?
5.1.
What is the difference between “Towards” and “Toward”?
6.
When to use “Toward” or “Towards”?
6.1.
What is the difference between ” Walk Toward” and “Walk Towards”?
6.2.
What is the difference between “Toward the” and “me Towards the”?
6.3.
What is the difference between “don’t have emotions Toward” and “don’t have emotions Towards”?
7.
What are the example sentences for “Towards” and “Toward” differences?
8.
Why should Content Writers need to know the difference between “Toward” and “Towards”?
8.1.
Does Grammar Errors affect Search Engine Optimization Performance?
8.2.
Is using “Towards”, or “Toward” in the wrong way have a harmful effect on E-A-T?
8.3.
Is “Towards”, or “Toward” the has the same meaning?
What does “Toward” mean in English?
The meaning of the word “toward” as a preposition in English is, “in the path of something, particularly a place.” Meanwhile, “toward” as an adjective means, “on going” or “in progress.” According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the definition of “toward” is “in the direction of.” The origin of “toward” is the Old English word
tōweardes
which means “in proximity; nearby.” It has been used prior to the year 900. Some examples of the word “toward” in sentences include, “The lady leaned her head toward her daughter’s shoulder due to exhaustion.” “He’s only gentle and kind toward his pets, but harsh and rude toward people.”
How to use “Toward” word in sentences properly?
“Toward” is an English word that when misused causes misinterpretations and incorrectness in grammar. Therefore, the usage of “toward”  must always be done with caution with a list of basis to write sentences properly.
Listed below are the steps to properly use the word “toward” in sentences.
Identity the word type to be used:
The sentence must be assessed what type of “toward” is required. There are two types of “toward” forms, namely prepositions and adjectives. The discussion must be identified first before using them.
Know the audience:
Knowing the audience enables authors to use “toward” appropriately. American and Canadian audiences prefer “toward” and thus it must be used in the articles where they are the expected readers.
Learn the style guide:
The formal writing of the AP stylebook recommends writers use “toward” instead of “towards” in their sentences. “Toward” is recommended as it is a shorter version.
The meaning of the terms “towards” and “toward” do not contain any significant distinction. They have the same meaning despite their variation in terms of spelling and purpose. “Towards” is encouraged to be used only for Europe and Australia, but still allowed to be used for others if instructed to do so. It has an additional letter “s” which resembles the typical British word that is often seen as having extra characters. “Toward” is for America, Canada, and in some English-speaking countries.
What does “Towards” mean in English?
The term “towards” as a preposition consists of the same meaning as “toward” which is, “in the way of something, specifically a different location.” On the other hand, “towards” as an adjective means “something is going on or in the process.” The Oxford English Dictionary defines “towards” as “in the direction of.” The word “towards” originates from the Old English term
tōweardes
that is associated with the meaning “within the proximity” or “approaching.” “Towards” was first used in the 12th century. An example of “towards” in a sentence is, “The flowers lean towards the direction of the sun.” Another example is, “He nodded his head towards the library.”
How to use “Towards” in English Sentences properly?
The word “towards” is a British English word, which is less frequently utilized and is not highly recommended to include in writing articles unless it is based in Europe. Thus, there are some factors that needed to be followed to properly use it in sentences.
Listed below are the steps to properly use the word “towards” in sentences.
Know what form of the word is needed:
Each sentence within a specific text or article necessitates some specific form of “towards.” It is used for several purposes such as an expression of direction or relationship.
Familiarize the readers:
Readers are highly particular with the language they favor, especially in a formal setting. British and Australians are biased in using “towards”, so writers must use it if they have readers residing in Europe and Australia.
Recognize the style guide:
“Towards” is less preferable by the AP stylebook as it is a lengthy version. Therefore, “towards” must only be used in texts that allow it.
The meaning of “towards” and “toward” do not differ in any way possible. These words have the same definition even if they have distinct forms and are intended to be used in varying texts. “Towards” must be used only for British and Australian audiences, but still allowed to be used for others if instructed to do so. “Toward” is exclusive to American and Canadian audiences, and is seen in some English-speaking countries. It does not have a letter “s” as it follows the standards of the American language that remove unnecessary characters to make words shorter and concise.
Should you use a comma before or after “Towards”?
No, a comma should not be used before or after “towards.” The word “toward” is a preposition that connects certain phrases within a particular sentence for a complete thought. Therefore, using a comma in English is not necessary for most instances. An example of “toward” without a comma in a sentence is, “The band went toward the backstage after their last performance.” Another example is, “The students went toward the stage for the awarding ceremony.”
Which is usually used in a sentence “Toward” or “Towards”?
The word “toward” is one that is frequently used in a sentence. “Toward” is coming from the American English language which is highly influential and popular around the world. It is preferred by formal and standard texts such as academic papers, professional reports, and content writing. “Toward” is not often used except for the majority of the European states and Australian countries as their English words are different. Some examples of “toward” in a sentence include, “The children are going toward the school bus.” “It is your responsibility to pile the boxes toward its designated areas.”
How to Differentiate “Toward” and “Towards” during speaking?
The differentiation of “toward” and “towards” during speaking is identified through pronunciation. The terms “toward” and “towards” are different when it comes to the way they are pronounced verbally. Thus, they are very distinguishable from each other. The pronunciation of “toward” ends with the sound of the letter “d.” Whereas, the way “towards” is pronounced has a sound of the letter “s” in the last part. “Toward” is shorter compared to “towards” when being spoken. These two words are easy to differentiate during speaking and do not cause any confusion among listeners.
Do people confuse “Toward” and “Towards” while speaking?
No, people are not confused between “toward” and “towards” while speaking. These two terms are significantly distinguishable from each other when they are being read or spoken verbally. The most notable difference between “toward” and “towards” is that the first word has shorter pronunciation while the second word has a lengthy one due to the inclusion of “s” sound. “Toward” and “towards” are not similar to other words with varying spelling but the same pronunciation. Hence, both speakers and listeners are capable of identifying them from each other immediately.
How to Remember the difference between “Toward” and “Towards”?
The words “toward” and “towards” have some subtle differences that are most likely difficult to remember. However, the methods to remember them are extremely easy.
Listed below are the methods to remember the difference between “toward” and “towards.”
Spelling:
The word “toward” is a 6-letter word spelled as “T-O-W-A-R-D.” Meanwhile, “towards” is a 7-letter word spelled as “T-O-W-A-R-D-S.”
Origin:
“Toward” originates from the American English language. On the other hand, “towards” is from the British English vocabulary.
Pronunciation:
The pronunciation of “toward” ends with the sound from the letter “d.” Whereas the pronunciation of “towards” has an additional sound from the letter “s” which makes it more lengthy.
“When do you use Towards vs Toward?” “Towards” and “toward” are completely similar to each other in terms of meaning. Therefore, there are no issues when they are used interchangeably in some sentences as the meaning is not altered. However, there are restrictions when it comes to English preference. There are still certain standards and guidelines that must be met, despite possessing the same meaning.
What is the difference between “Towards” and “Toward”?
The differences between “towards” and “toward” are simply their forms, geographical language, and pronunciation. “Towards” has an additional letter “s”, while “toward” omits it for a simpler and shorter spelling. “Towards” is an English word from the British Dictionary and is usually used for European content. On the other hand, “toward” is an American English word. “Towards” is pronounced as “tuh·wordz”, while “toward” is read verbally as “tuh-word.” There is no meaning distinction between these two words and using them interchangeably in some limited contexts is acceptable.
When to use “Toward” or “Towards”?
The word “toward” must be used in American, Canadian, and other English-speaking countries such as in Asia. “Toward” was adapted by other countries from the USA and is more commonly used worldwide. It is used for formal writing, mainly because it is highly preferred by standard grammarians and linguists. “Towards” is used for European and Australian readers. It must be used less often compared “toward” as most readers avoid having it in their readings, especially professional ones. “Toward” and “towards” must not be used interchangeably for non-native English speakers as it causes language and meaning misinterpretation.
What is the difference between ” Walk Toward” and “Walk Towards”?
There is no significant difference between “walk toward” and “walk towards.” These phrases only mean and pertain to the same thought. “Walk toward” and “walk towards” mean that someone is arriving at a particular location using their feet. Another meaning is indicating a movement in a specific direction. The only difference between the two phrases is the spelling and the target audiences. An example of “walk toward” in a sentence is, “Cross the street for a chic coffee shop or take a walk toward the river.” One example of “walk towards” in a sentence includes, “Gabrielle watches it as they walk towards the entrance to the town.”
What is the difference between “Toward the” and “me Towards the”?
The difference between “toward the” and “me towards the” is the addition of the word “me” which implies the first-person point of view. “Toward the” is a phrase that describes the movement of something or someone to a particular destination. For instance, “She’s pushing the cart toward the meat section of the supermarket.” “Me towards the” means that the speaker itself is the one who is moving. For example, “It is either you or me towards the direction of the river.”
What is the difference between “don’t have emotions Toward” and “don’t have emotions Towards”?
The difference between “don’t have emotions toward” and “don’t have emotions towards” is the type of countries they are suited to. “Don’t have emotions toward” is more suitable for countries such as the USA and Canada. On the other hand, “don’t have 

[...truncated...]