It's vs Its: Difference between Them and How to correctly use them - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The word “It’s” is a contraction of the terms “it is” or “it has.” Often, “It’s” is interchangeably used with “Its.” However, “Its” is a possessive pronoun that always indicates ownership. The two words are grammatically correct when used properly in a sentence. Confusing words like “It’s” and “Its” are used regularly when communicating. First, study its meaning and remember its correct spelling to efficiently use a certain word. The two words are almost identical, which is why people get confused about whether to use “It’s, or It’s” in a sentence, especially in writing. They both have the same pronunciation, and their spelling is almost identical. The only difference in their spelling is the apostrophe in “It’s”. It must not be a battle between “It’s vs “its.” What matters is their correct usage. The two words are common English words that are essential in daily conversations.
The differences and comparisons between “It’s” and “Its” are listed below.
“It’s” is a contraction of the terms “it is” and “it has.”
“It’s” has an apostrophe in its spelling.
“It’s” is pronounced the same as the word “eats.”
“Its” is an example of a possessive pronoun.
“Its” refers to ownership and belonging.
“Its” does not have an apostrophe in its spelling.
“Its” is pronounced the same as the word “eats”.
Understanding when and which words must be used in a sentence to deliver the correct message or information is vital. Writers understand and study the correct spelling and meaning of each word. Writers know when and how to use words like “It’s” and “Its” in writing. Words that look and sound alike are often misused, resulting in spelling and grammatical mistakes. However, these mistakes are avoidable if someone is writing carefully. Writers do proofread to check if there are any spelling mistakes or grammar errors in their articles.
Proper usage of words like “Its” and “It’s” in a sentence matters because one must convey factual and accurate information. Some example sentences using the words “Its” and “It’s are
“It’s
true that, on average, women are vainer than men.
”
“It’s always raining lately.” The word “It’s” in the sentence examples is used as a contraction of “it is.” Example sentences using the word “Its.”
“
Social media has
its
advantages and disadvantages.”  “The flower is in
its
pot.” “Its” is used as a possessive pronoun in the two-sentence example.
Using the right terms or words is helpful in daily life, content writing, and marketing. Words are powerful, especially in Marketing. People communicate through words. Marketers use specific and appropriate words to encourage people to buy the product they are promoting. They used informative words to entice and capture the interest of future customers. Using the correct words in marketing has the power to attract customers. Writers must understand why to know the difference between “It’s” and “Its” for content writing and marketing. Proper usage of words always matters. Writers must choose their words correctly and write them properly to convey a message. The same thing applies to content writing. Content writers must be knowledgeable about the proper terms and words to write good-quality content. Content writers communicate with their readers by writing correct and informative articles.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does “It’s” Mean?
1.1.
What are the sentence examples with “It’s”?
1.2.
When to use the word “It’s” in a sentence?
1.3.
How Often is the word “It’s” used in a sentence?
1.4.
What are the synonyms of “It’s”?
2.
What does “Its” Mean?
2.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Its”?
2.2.
When to use the word “Its” in a sentence?
2.3.
How often is the word “Its” used in a sentence?
2.4.
What are the synonyms of “Its”?
2.5.
How is the pronunciation of “It’s” and “Its”?
3.
Comparison between “It’s” and “Its”
4.
Why are “It’s” and “Its” misused interchangeably in English?
4.1.
Are “It’s” and “Its” the most commonly misused English words?
4.2.
What are the other similar Misused Word Pairs like “Its” and “It’s” in English?
4.3.
What are the things should a content writer consider in using the word “It’s” and “Its”?
5.
Can content writers use “It’s” and “Its” in one sentence?
6.
How do Content Writers use “It’s” and “Its” in their articles?
6.1.
Do Content Writers use “It’s” and “Its” in the wrong way?
6.2.
Do Misused Words such as “Its” and “It’s” affect SEO and UX?
What does “It’s” Mean?
The word “It’s” is the shortened version of the terms “it is” and “it has”. The word is spelled with an apostrophe. “It’s” is an example of a contraction. The origin of the word “It’s” is similar to “Its”. The two words originated as a neuter possessive pronoun; in the late 16th century, from it+genitive/possessive endings. It is typically written as “it’s”, a spelling retained by some until the beginning of the 19th century. The Oxford Dictionary defines “It’s” as a short form for “it is” and “it has.” d as a pharmaceutical ingredient in pharmacy, chemistry, and other manufacturing methods. The word “It’s” is a common English word used daily. Knowing proper word usage is essential because it makes communication easier and more understandable.
What are the sentence examples with “It’s”?
Listed below are the sentence examples with “It’s”.
“His business began in May, and
it’s
been booming since then.” It’s” was used as a contraction of the term “it is” in the sentence.
“It’s
beginning to look a lot like Christmas in our village.” It’s” was used as a contraction of the term “it is” in the sentence.
“It’s
a nice day to walk in the park.”It’s” was used as a contraction of the term “it is” in the sentence.
“The music is so loud, and
it’s
pretty noisy.”It’s” was used as a contraction of the term “it is” in the sentence.
“It’s been fantastic talking to you.”It’s” was used as a contraction of the term “it is” in the sentence.
When to use the word “It’s” in a sentence?
“It’s” is a contraction of the phrase “it is” or “it has.” A contraction is a shortened term for a word or group of words, with the excluded letters often replaced in written English by an apostrophe. Do not exclude the apostrophe in it, or changes its context to use the word “It’s” in a sentence. The word “It’s” apostrophe indicates that the word is a contraction or a shortened term. Always remember that “It’s” is the shortcut version of “it is” to properly use it in a sentence. “It’s” must not be mistaken with the word “Its” because the latter is a pronoun that shows ownership when used in a sentence.
How Often is the word “It’s” used in a sentence?
“It’s” is regularly used in a sentence, depending on the message someone wants to convey. “It’s” is a common English word used in daily conversations. “It’s” is the contraction of the term “it is” or “it has.” “It’s” must be used in a sentence when someone wants to shorten the term “it is.” It must not be mistaken for the word “Its” because “Its” refers to ownership, and it is a pronoun.
What are the synonyms of “It’s”?
There are no available synonyms for “It’s”. The word is used as it is, and there is no available alternative.
What does “Its” Mean?
The term “its” refers to ownership or belonging to. “Its” is a possessive pronoun that indicates ownership. The origin of “Its” started as a neuter possessive pronoun in late 16C, from It+genitive/possessive endings. “It’s” was commonly written, a spelling retained by some beginning of the 19th century at first. The apostrophe was removed because “it’s” was already established as a contraction of “it is, or by the general habit of excluding apostrophes in personal pronouns like hers, yours, theirs, etc. The word “Its” was defined in the Oxford Dictionary as a determiner belonging to or connected with a thing, an animal, or a baby.
What are the sentence examples with “Its”?
Listed below are sentence examples with “Its.”
The town is celebrating
its
20th anniversary in December. “Its” was used in a sentence as a possessive form of the pronoun “it.”
The fish is too small for
its
aquarium. “Its” was used in a sentence as a possessive form of the pronoun “it.”
This jam is past
its
expiration date. “Its” was used in a sentence as a possessive form of the pronoun “it.”
The cat is quietly sleeping in
its
cage. “Its” was used in a sentence as a possessive form of the pronoun “it.”
This house is more expensive than
its
neighbors. “Its” was used in a sentence as a possessive form of the pronoun “it.”
When to use the word “Its” in a sentence?
“Its” is used to specify possession. The possessive form of the pronoun “it” is “its”. “Its” doesn’t require an apostrophe to show possession, like the possessive determiners “hers”, and “his.” Simply write “its” to describe something that belongs to, or is a part of, an animal, plant, or inanimate object. “Its” must not be mistaken with “It”s” because the latter is a contraction of the word “it is” or “it has.”
How often is the word “Its” used in a sentence?
“Its” is often used in a sentence, depending on the message someone wants to convey. “Its” is a common English word used in daily communication. “Its” is a possessive form of the pronoun “it,” meaning belonging to it. “Its” must be used about the ownership of something. “Its” is similar to personal pronouns such as yours, ours, theirs, etc. These English words do not use apostrophes when showing possession.
What are the synonyms of “Its”?
“Its” has several synonyms used as an alternative for the word. Some synonyms of “Its” include her, his, my, our, their, and your. “Its” indicates possession and is a possessive pronoun. Here are sample sentences using the synonyms of “Its”
:
“ My cat Rosie waggles her (its) tail happily.” “The hotel raised their (its) rate”. The two sample sentences both indicate ownership.
How is the pronunciation of “It’s” and “Its”?
The words “It’s” and “Its” are pronounced “ih-t-s”. The two words are pronounced the same way. Even their spelling is almost identical.“Its” means belonging to; it is a possessive pronoun, while “it’s” means “it is”, it is a contraction. The proper pronunciation of “It’s and “Its” is similar when saying the word “eats”. The words are almost identical, and the little apostrophe is what makes the former distinct.
Comparison between “It’s” and “Its”
The table below shows the comparison between “It’s” and “Its.”
Word
Definition
Context
Example sentences
It’s
The word “It’s” is used as a contraction of “it is” and “it has.”
“It’s” with an apostrophe is a contraction of “it is” or “it has.”
It’s
starting to get cold outside.
It’s
always raining lately.
The concert is about to start, and
it’s
pretty crowded.
Its
The word “Its” is a possessive form of the pronoun “it”, which translates to “belonging to.”
“Its” without an apostrophe is a possessive pronoun like his or hers. “Its” indicates ownership or possession.
The cowboy returned the gun to
its
holster.
The dragon destroyed the castle using
its
fiery breath.
The museum needs to update
its
online schedule.
Why are “It’s” and “Its” misused interchangeably in English?
The words “It’s” and “Its” are often mistaken for their spelling and usage. “It’s’ and “Its” have the same pronunciation. Many get confused by them. People rely mostly on the sound of words. It is common for people to forget to include apostrophes in certain words, hence changing their context unknowingly. The word “It’s” and the term “Its” both function as two distinct parts of speech, a contraction, and a pronoun. The words are not related, the confusion comes because of the similarity in pronunciation and spelling.
Are “It’s” and “Its” the most commonly misused English words?
Yes, “It’s” and “Its” are among the most commonly misused English words. However, these misused words affect someone’s delivery of a message. It results in misinformation and confusion when misused. The English language is a tricky one. Frequently, some words are used interchangeably. People sometimes forget the proper spelling and proper usage of an apostrophe. Just like the words “It’s” and “Its” appear to be the same. However, “It’s” has an apostrophe in its spelling. These words are regularly mistaken for spelling and usage. Some repeatedly misused English words have similar pronunciations but distinct meanings. Other people find it hard to identify the right one in a given context. Some commonly
misused English words
are “affect and effect”, “complement, and compliment”, “farther and further”, “inquiry and enquiry”, “a lot and allot”, “your and you’re”, “principal and principle”, and so many others.
What are the other similar Misused Word Pairs like “Its” and “It’s” in English?
Below are other similar Misused Word Pairs like “Its” and “It’s.”
“Further and Farther”:
The terms
“further” and “farther”
are often misused word pairs like “It’s” and “its,” mainly because of almost identical spellings caused by a different second letter and an additional symbol. “Further” and “farther” differ in their second letters of both words the other has “u” and the other has “a”, ”while “it’s” and “its” are distinct but have added (‘) in the word “it’s. “Further and Farther” sound alike, but have different meanings. Their spelling is almost the same, with just a single letter difference. The two words are used distinctively in a sentence.
“Breath and Breathe”:
The terms
“breath” and “breathe”
are commonly misused word pairs like “It’s” and “its,” mainly because of their almost identical spellings. “Breath” and “breathe” differ because of the added letter “e” on the other word “breathe”, while the words “it’s and “its” are considered homophones, but the spelling has added symbol (‘) to contract the words “it and is.” “Breath” and “breathe” are examples of misused word pairs. Both words almost sound the same, and their spelling. However, their meaning is different. “Breath” is a noun, while “breathe” is a verb.
“Accept and Except”:
The word
“accept” and “except”

[...truncated...]
