Skip to content
The exact match domain refers to a domain name that involves phrases with the search demand from the web search engines. An exact match domain can have multiple keywords with search volume in the domain name. Exact match domains involve brandinizing the query for ranking purposes. An exact match domain can rank higher than other branded term domains. Thus, SEOs prefer Exact Match Domains (EMDs) for ranking purposes. Search engines, like Google and Microsoft Bing, made several explanations related to the exact match domains’ functionality and usage purposes.
The Exact Match Domain SEO Case Study key results are below.
Having 100+ daily clicks on the 7th day of the project.
Despite there being 10 different brands using the same phrase on the domain name, coming to the first SERP page in one week.
Breaching 5,000+ organic clicks in the first month.
Breaching 100,000 impressions in the first month.
Having 7,000+ organic queries in the first month.
Ranking for the synonyms of the Exact Match Domain phrase.
Acquiring 1000+ direct sessions for the brand.
Indexing 80+ web pages on the 3rd day of the brand launch.
Reaching out 700 Clicks a day in the 6th month of the project.
10,358 Organic Search Queries are acquired.
1115 Ranked Queries between 4-10 in 6 months.
377 Organic Search Queries are ranked between 1–3 rankings in 6 months with exact matching domains.
During the project, the total referring domain count was and is lower than 100.
The Domain Rating Score of Ahrefs is 4.1, while SEMRush’s Authority Score is 23.
The total Referring Domain is 96, the Backlink count is 453.
The top-ranking competitor has 5700 Referring Domain, and 8,100,000 backlinks with 7,500,000 monthly search traffic.
The second top competitor has 49,800 referring domains with 11,800,000 backlinks with 74,000,000 monthly traffic.
The project had to be ceased due to the pandemic conditions and hyperinflation in Turkey, along with regulations in the used car market.
The project has proven that exact matching domains bend the query search needs, and change the query context with “navigational query classifications”.
The project has been outranked when it stops branding, and publishing new content with higher quality, and the project had design and UX issues. But, the outranking project was another exact-matching domain that proves the exact match domains (EMD) search engine optimization value.
The EMD SEO project has been launched in the middle of February, gradually.
Two Months Later, a version of the same website was.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What are the benefits of Exact Match Domains for SEO?
2.
Why is Query Processing Relevant to Exact Match Domains?
3.
Why is Entity-oriented Search Relevant to Exact Match Domain SEO Projects?
4.
What are the uses of Brand SERP and Knowledge Panel Management for EMDs?
5.
What are the Disadvantages of Exact Match Domains?
6.
What is the Relevance of Information Foraging to Exact Match Domain SEO?
7.
What is the Relevance of Exact Match Domains to the Embarrassment Factor of Search Engines?
8.
What is the Background of the Exact Match Domain SEO Case Study?
8.1.
120 Daily Clicks on the 11th Day of Exact Match Domain SEO Project with a High-Competitive Term
8.1.1.
Optimizing User Interactions and Search intent for a Better Exact Match Domain Performance
8.2.
Do Exact Match Domains need a Web App always?
8.2.1.
Optimizing the Internal Link Circulation and Navigation for Better EMD SEO
8.2.2.
Importance of Synonym Phrases for the Exact Match Domains
8.2.3.
A Comparison of Two Different Exact Match Domains’ Performance for the Same Phrase
8.3.
Which questions a search engine can consider to compare and test exact match domains for ranking?
8.3.1.
Technical SEO Improvements for Exact Match Domain SEO
8.3.2.
Local SEO Improvements for Exact Match Domain SEO
8.3.3.
Semantic SEO Improvements for Exact Match Domain SEO
9.
How to Create Brand Value for Exact Match Domains?
10.
Why does a Search Engine Spokesperson Say that Exact Match Domains don’t work?
10.1.
Is Using Exact Match Domains Web Spam?
10.2.
How Does Microsoft Bing React to Exact Match Domains?
11.
Misleading Exact Match Domains and Ranking Algorithms
11.1.
Do Domain Extensions affect the Exact Match Domains’ Success for SEO?
11.2.
Do Exact Match Domains create faster Topical Authority?
11.3.
Do Exact Match Domains align with Semantic Content Networks?
11.4.
Does Exact Match Domains help for the generation of site-wide Ngrams on Google Side?
11.5.
Do Exact Match Domains help for Indexation?
11.6.
How do Exact Matching Domains Compete Against Each Other?
12.
Last Thoughts on Exact Match Domains and Holistic SEO
What are the benefits of Exact Match Domains for SEO?
Search Engines use Information Retrieval and Extraction to understand the overall relevancy, quality, accuracy, and responsiveness of a document to a phrase. Exact match domains contain the advantage of being able to rank quicker since they include valuable phrases on their website name. Information Retrieval methodologies find the phrases in different sections of the web page for weighting them differently. These sections are called “zones”. URL and Domain Name sections of the URL are different zones. Having the searched query in the brand name affects the character of the query. Thus, to be able to rank for a competitive term with an Exact Match Domain, the SEO Project has to have brand value. Changing the query processing methods of search engines, and the results of these methods, the data for the brand identity has to be provided.
The benefits of Exact Match Domains for SEO are listed below.
Collecting historical data earlier.
Including the essential relevancy points on the site every moment.
Brandinization of queries is easier.
Opening site links on the SERP for more SERP state and SERP-originated navigation is easier.
The Browsers’ address bar can show directly the EMD while the user searches for the specific query.
The auto-complete data and suggestions for web search engine users can contain the brand name easier.
The query search results can contain the web entity parts, such as social media account results.
The Google Business Profile (GMB) can appear in the competitive search term with brand reviews.
The Knowledge Graph can contain the “Brand” entity, and a knowledge panel can be triggered.
The brand name can appear in the related search terms with the same query’s “capital letter” starting version.
The brand’s video carousels and video results can appear for the search term.
The brand can appear in the localized search terms faster.
The news about the brand can trigger Top Stories or “News” SERP Feature.
The Shopping or Books sections can appear for the competitive terms.
The Brand’s managers or founders can appear in the specific search term results directly or indirectly.
The benefits of the Exact Match Domains are relevant to Information Retrieval and Extraction, but also it is relevant to the query processing methods of the search engines. An exact match domain affects the query results by changing the query’s nature. Making it from a generic term to a navigational brand term changes the results. Thus, having an exact brand identity is important. That’s why the Knowledge Panel Management and Brand SERP Optimization are relevant to the Exact Match Domains.
Internal Link Circulation and exploration path sample from the Homepage of the Exact Match Domain SEO Case Study. All the prominent topics are linked from the homepage to support the brand’s authority for the topic.
From Entity-oriented search to semantic SEO, Exact Match Domain SEO Case Studies create a connection.
Why is Query Processing Relevant to Exact Match Domains?
Query processing is relevant to exact match domains because a search engine understands the relevance of words that appear in the domain name to a query by processing the query. Query processing is the process of rewriting the query by calculating the term weights in the query words. A processed query can provide relevance for the main search intent or the minor search intent. The processed query might include phrases from the specific domain, name, or variations of the specific domain name words. Based on the coverage, or the mutual word occurrence between the processed query variations, and the domain name words, the exact match domain’s success chance varies.
An announcement from Matt Cutts for the Exact Match Domains.
A query processing methodology involves query parsing, query term weight calculation, question generation, query word order changing, query word stemming and lemmatization, and query word clustering. An exact match domain and query processing relevance comes from the Information Retrieval from different zones. A zone is the part of the web page. If the processed query versions include the words from the domain name, or the brand name, the relevance, or the possible search intent satisfactions become higher between the raw query (user’s query) and the website.
New Exact Match Domain update announcement from Matt Cutts. It started to affect English first, since it is the canonical language of Google, and easier to understand.
To learn more about the query processing methods of semantic search engines, read Koray Tugberk GUBUR’s Semantic Search Engines and Query Processing methods.
Why is Entity-oriented Search Relevant to Exact Match Domain SEO Projects?
Entity-oriented search is relevant to exact match domain SEO Projects because, entity-oriented search engines organize their indexes based on the entities, their attributes, and connections. A brand is an entity type for entity-oriented search engines. A brand entity involves different phrases within its name. Entity-phrase association makes a query relevant to a brand name from another vertical. Matching phrases, and matching entities are two different processes that happen from the same characters.
The same thing is said by Garry Illyes in the “When SEO goes wrong” episode of the Search Off the Record Podcast series. Garry said, “People were exploiting the exact match domains, and we decreased their advantage for rankings.”
A search engine can try to match the word embeddings, character embeddings, or the meaning of the word. Embeddings do not vary from word to word while meaning changes tremendously. The same word can have multiple different names with different other words. Thus, a search engine needs to differentiate when the word refers to a brand when it refers to the term. This differentiation process can extract “mentions”, or “inferred links” for the brand. An exact match domain can take the advantage of “being mentioned” by uniting its brand identity with the concept that they are relevant. Besides marketing purposes, matching a brand name with the targeted generic concept benefits the entity-oriented search algorithms to make the brand more relevant to the specific “meaning”.
The Social Media Existence of the EMD SEO Project has been arranged for the same day as the main launch.
For the Exact Match Domain SEO Case Study, the car brands, models, fuel types, gears, manufacturers, and other types of car-related attributes are used to satisfy all the possible search intents for the meaning of the phrases that appear in the exact match domain.
What are the uses of Brand SERP and Knowledge Panel Management for EMDs?
Entity-oriented search is relevant to the Brand SERP and Knowledge Panel Management. Brand SERP is optimizing the search engine result page for the brand’s brand name query. Knowledge Panel Management involves the optimization efforts for the information that a knowledge panel involves. A brand name with an exact match domain name involves Brand SERP and Knowledge Panel Management for dominating the character of a SERP. The character of a SERP involves the overall SERP Features, related search terms, search verticals, video carousels, or other types of SERP Features. The success of an EMD and SERP Character are connected to each other. Domination of a SERP instance with the brand-related terms and other entities includes the process of Brand SERP and Knowledge Panel Management.
Instagram Account of the EMD SEO Project. To have a better SMO (Social Media Optimization), these platforms should be automated.
What are the Disadvantages of Exact Match Domains?
There are two main disadvantages for the exact match domains. These are multiple brands with the same name, and brand identity resolution. The disadvantages of EMDs are listed below, with their examples and explanations.
Brand Identity Resolution: Brand Identity Resolution involves the differentiation of a brand from another with its own identity. Exact Match Domains cause usage of the same domain name with different domain extensions, such as “example.com” and “example.co”. Thus, it creates a security issue while also creating a brand differentiation effort from the search engine point of view.
Existing Multiple Brands with Same Name: Existing Multiple Brands with the Same Name makes SEO Efforts harder. Because one brand mention can benefit multiple brands. Search engine users click another brand in the wrong way. And,  a search engine can’t rank always all the exact match domains, it would create an “embarrassment” for that. Thus, a search engine has to decrease the value of the “branded search” for the query by limiting an EMD query to one EMD.
Lackness of Brand Identity Awareness: Lackness of Brand Identity Awareness is a long-term obstacle for an EMD brand. Not having a brand identity can decrease user retention, brand other queries’ search demand, and the brand’s prominence to the search engine. To differentiate a brand from another, using better UX elements, or Trust Elements, logos, mottos, events, newsletters, and omnichannel marketing strategies are necessary.
Increased Brand Building and Marketing Cost: Brand Identity Awareness, Brand Identity Resolution, and Multiple Brand Name Competitors create an increased mark

[...truncated...]