425 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The 425 HTTP Status Code means that the request is too early, which indicates the server is unwilling to take the risk of performing a possibly replayed request. When a user agent sends an early data request and receives a 425 HTTP response Status Code, the user agent is supposed to retry the request. While a user agent should retry automatically, retries must not be delivered in early data. In any of these instances, an intermediary may transmit a 425 HTTP Status Code.  If the request that the intermediary received and sent contains an Early-Data header field, the intermediary must return a 425 HTTP response Status Code. Meanwhile, an intermediate that receives a request in early data may automatically retry the request in response to a 425 HTTP Status Code, but must wait for the TLS handshake on the connection from which the request originated to complete. Unless the request is accepted in early data or the Early-Data header field is set to “1,” the server cannot assume that a client is capable of retrying a request. A server should not issue the 425 HTTP Status Code unless one of the following requirements is met. By default, the 425 HTTP Status Code is not cacheable.Its payload contains no reference to any known resource. The difference between HTTP Status Codes 400 and 425 is that the 400 HTTP Status Codes indicate that due to an apparent client error, the server is unable to or unwilling to perform the request, whereas the 425 HTTP Status Code indicates that the server doesn’t want to take the chance of having to deal with a request that gets retried.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does 425 HTTP Status Code Mean?
1.1.
How to Use 425 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
2.
How to Check 425 HTTP Status Code?
3.
Which HTTP Method is used with 425 HTTP Status Code?
4.
What is the Related HTTP Response Header with 425 HTTP Status Code?
5.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of 425 HTTP Status Code?
6.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to the 425 HTTP Status Code?
What does 425 HTTP Status Code Mean?
The 425 HTTP Status Code means too early that indicates a server that is afraid to take the risk of executing a request that could be replayed, hence creating the opportunity for a replay attack to occur.
How to Use 425 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
To use the 425 HTTP Status Code is when a user agent sends an early data request and receives a 425 HTTP response Status Code, the user agent is supposed to retry the request. While a user agent should retry automatically, retries must not be delivered in early data.
How to Check 425 HTTP Status Code?
To check the 425 HTTP Status Code use the web browser network tab and developer tools for every resource that the client uses.
Which HTTP Method is used with 425 HTTP Status Code?
There is only one HTTP Method used with 425 HTTP Status Code which is the POST Method. The POST Method sends an entity to the specified resource, frequently resulting in a change in the server’s state or side effects.
What is the Related HTTP Response Header with 425 HTTP Status Code?
There is only one related HTTP Header with 425 HTTP Status Code which is the Early-Data HTTP Header. The
Early-Data
HTTP Header is set by an intermediary to indicate that the request was transmitted using TLS early data and that the intermediary understands the 425 Too Early HTTP Status Code.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of 425 HTTP Status Code?
The 425 HTTP Status Code is compatible with all browsers including Chrome, Edge, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Opera, Safari, and Webview Android.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to the 425 HTTP Status Code?
There are other similar HTTP Status Codes to the 425 HTTP Status Code. The following are listed below.
421 Misdirected Request HTTP Status Code: The
421  HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 425 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 421  HTTP Status Code indicates that the request was sent to a server that is unable to respond. This can be issued by a server that is not configured to respond to the request URI’s combination of scheme and authority.
422 Unprocessable Entity (WebDAV) HTTP Status Code: The
422  HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 425 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 422 HTTP Status Code indicates that the request was well-formed, but it couldn’t be followed because of semantic errors.
423 Locked (WebDAV) HTTP Status Code: The
423 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 425 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 423 HTTP Status Code indicates that the resource being accessed is password-protected.
424 Failed Dependency (WebDAV) HTTP Status Code: The
424 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 425 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 424 HTTP Status Code indicates that the request failed as a result of a prior request failing.
Author
Recent Posts
Follow SEO
Holistic SEO
SEO Research Department
at
Holistic SEO & Digital
Holistic SEO & Digital has been built by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR. Holistic SEO is the process of developing integrated digital marketing projects with every aspect including Coding, Natural Language Processing, Data Science, Page Speed, Digital Analytics, Content Marketing, Technical SEO, and Branding. Structured, Semantic Search Engine improves its ability to detect the real-world entities, today. Having a simple website is not enough anymore. To show that your brand is authoritative, trustworthy, and expert on its own niche, you need entity-based Search Engine Optimization Projects. Holistic SEO & Digital's main focus is on improving the brand's organic visibility and growth potential.
Follow SEO
Latest posts by Holistic SEO
(
see all
)
48 Online Shopping and Consumer Behavior Statistics, Facts and Trends
- August 22, 2023
B2B Marketing Statistics
- August 22, 2023
38 Podcast Statistics, Facts, and Trends
- August 22, 2023
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
TechSEO
425 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods
by Holistic SEO
time to read: 3 min
TechSEO
426 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
TechSEO
226 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
0
0
0