Skip to content
The terms “get,” “got,” or “gotten,” are words often misused and interchanged. They have the same meanings but differ when it comes to tenses. The definition of “Get” is something that you want to receive or something that you possess. The preterit and perfect participle of “Get” is “Got”. “Got” is commonly used as the preterit of “Get” in English-speaking states outside of the United States. They choose to use the word “Gotten” in North American English, while in British English, they choose to use “Got” as the perfect participle.
The differences and comparison for ‘Get, Got or Gotten’ are listed below.
“Get” is used to indicate to receive or to possess something.
“Get” is used to illustrate a situation resulting from another situation.
“Got” is used as the preterite of “Get” in British English.
“Got” is used to indicate that someone has reached a specified point or stage.
“Gotten” is used to indicate the past participle form of the word “get”.
“Gotten” is used with the word “have” or has” to show that someone has recently come to possess something.
Writers and speakers must know the difference between the words “get”, “got”, and “gotten”. They must be able to determine who they are speaking or writing to, in order to know which words must be used and how to use them. “Gotten” is used to refer to the process of owning something while “got” is used to refer to own or to possess something in North America. Speakers and writers usually use “got” in North America. The word “gotten” is often used with the words “has” or “have”  which is more common in British English than in American English.
Some examples of using the term “get” in a sentence are the following. “I want to get a haircut before taking a vacation.”. “His arrogance gets on my nerves.” The first example shows that the word “get” is preceded with a marker “to” which means to obtain or acquire. The second example implies that the attitude of the subject moved or affected the writer’s mood. On the other hand, some examples of the word “got” are as follows. “Leo was really tired when he got home.” “The players got to meet their favorite basketball star yesterday.” The first example indicates an idea that the subject arrived at his house exhausted. The second example means that the subject was able to get to know a person whom they look up to. The word “got” in both sentences is the past tense of the word “get” which is used in the sentences to describe an ability to perform an action or arrive at a certain location. Lastly, the sentence examples for the word” gotten” are the following. “I have gotten better at singing since I joined the camp.” “She has gotten so dramatic after they left.” The word “gotten” in both sentences is the past participle of the word “got” which indicates that a certain event or state has occurred. The first sentence states that the writer has come to a point where he/she has improved her singing skills. The second example expresses an idea that the subject has become very sensitive after losing her company.
A lot of writers and speakers are often asked as to “Why know the difference between ”get,” ”got,“ and”gotten “ for content writing and marketing?” It is important to know the difference between “get”, “got”, and “gotten” especially when it comes to content writing and marketing because there is a need to write better content and communicate in a healthier way to the readers and listeners. Content writers must bear in mind that applying the right word in a correct way produces good quality content and better marketing.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does “Get” Mean?
1.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Get”?
1.2.
When to use the word “Get” in a sentence?
1.3.
What are the synonyms of “Get”?
2.
What does “Got” Mean?
2.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Got”?
2.2.
When to use the word “Got” in a sentence?
2.3.
What are the synonyms of “Got”?
3.
What does “Gotten” Mean?
3.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Gotten”?
3.2.
When to use the word “Gotten” in a sentence?
3.3.
What are the synonyms of “Gotten”?
3.4.
How is the pronunciation of “Get” and “Got”?
4.
Comparison between “Get”, “Got” and “Gotten”
5.
Why are “Get”, “Got” and “Gotten” misused and interchangeably in English?
5.1.
Are “Get”, “Got” and “Gotten” is the most commonly misused English words?
5.2.
What are the other similar Misused Word Pairs like “Get”, “Got” and “Gotten” in English?
5.3.
What are the things should a content writer consider in using the word “Get”, “Got” and “Gotten”?
6.
How do Content Writers use “Get”, “Got” and “Gotten” in their articles?
6.1.
Do Content Writers use “Get”, “Got” and “Gotten” in a wrong way?
6.2.
Do Misused Words such as “Get”, “Got” and “Gotten” affect SEO and UX?
What does “Get” Mean?
“Get” means to receive, to be in possession of something, to obtain or to acquire. The word get came from Old Norse which means “to obtain, reach; to be able to.” Get has a very wide and broad meaning. It is often used as a helping verb to complete sentences and phrases. In the Old English, Dutch and Frisian, get is exclusively used in compounds such as
begietan
which means to beget and
forgietan
which means to forget. Usually in compound phrases together with have and had, it is grammatically wrong to use got but it is necessary to use if the sentence is used to give emphasis on something. “Get” is defined in a lot of ways but the simplest definition is get means to receive or to obtain something in the Oxford Dictionary. People started using the word get with different meanings in the 1800s. It started with ‘get wind of’, which meant to become acquainted with in 1840. Get is a common word in the English dictionary because it is used in an informal way in both speaking and writing. Plus, get has a lot of meaning and is used in so many idioms. It is used less in formal writing compared to informal writing and has a wide number of grammatical patterns depending on how the writers and speakers use it. The word get is important in our daily lives because writers use it almost all the time to ask for something they want or they need.
What are the sentence examples with “Get”?
Listed below are the sentence examples with the word “Get.”
“It is my turn to
get
food delivered to you today.” The word “get” in the sentence implies that it is the speaker’s responsibility to process or organize the food delivery on that certain day. Notice that “get” is preceded with the infinitive marker ”to”, which indicates that the word “get” is an infinitive verb. The two words when combined denotes that a certain task needs to be done.
“I’m going to
get
rid of all the bad energy he has given me.” The word “get” in the sentence is paired up with the word” to” again, denoting that an action needs to be accomplished. The word “get” as used in the sentence, means to arrive at a certain point of becoming. That point of becoming as expressed in the sentence, is the writer’s point of riddance for bad energy.
“It really
gets
me when my mom shouts at me.” Notice that the word “get” contains the letter “s” at the end. The word “Gets” in the sentence is in a third-person singular simple present indicative form of “get”. The sentence implies that the writer’s mother’s shout is a big deal for him.her.
“I can
get
the bill for our dinner tonight.” The sentence shows the most generic way of applying the word “get” in a sentence. The word “get” in the sentence means to take or to claim.
When to use the word “Get” in a sentence?
“Get” is used in describing or referring to something. It is used in different ways since “get” is a flexible verb. First, “get” is used to obtain, to receive or to buy, we use get plus the direct object or get plus an indirect object plus an object. Second, get is used when talking about arriving or reaching a certain destination to express travel.  “Get” plus the expression of the place is used to form the sentence. Third, get is  used to refer to a change of situation. Use “get” plus an adjective to form the sentence. Lastly, “get” is used as a phrasal verb which leads to numerous meanings. Use “get” plus the preposition or an adverb to form a correct phrasal verb. The words “acquire”, “obtain”, “receive”, “gain”, and “earn”are the synonyms of the word “get”. Since “get” is used to express actions, it is not advisable to be used in sentences that answer the questions who and when. “Get” is prohibited from being used in passive sentences.
What are the synonyms of “Get”?
The words “Bring” and “earn” are the top two most used synonyms for “get”. “Bring” is defined as to come to a place with somebody or something. For example, “Please
bring (get)
me the water bottle.” The sentence means that the person speaking in the sentence is asking for the water bottle. Compared to the word get,
bring
is used with adverbs and nouns. Another synonym for the word “get” is “earn”. “Earn” is defined by the Oxford Dictionary as to get money for the work that is accomplished. For example, “She
earns (gets)
a maximum of $500,000 a year”. The sentence means that the person speaking is earning $500,000 a year. “Earn” is used with adverbs and nouns, the same with the word “bring”, however, “earn” is used with prepositions as well.
What does “Got” Mean?
“Got” is defined as the preterite and perfect participle of “get”. Since “got” is only the preterite and perfect participle of get, the word “got” came from Old Norse as well. “Got” is defined as the past participle of gotten in British English, in the Oxford Dictionary. The same with get, got is used in  the 1800s. Starting with ‘get wind of’ in 1840, then ‘to get drunk’ from the 1660s up to ‘to get religion’ in 1772. It is considered grammatically wrong to use the word “got” in a formal way but it is acceptable in informal writing. The most preferred past participle of get is got, according to British English. “Got” is an important word that is used daily because it is considered slang.
What are the sentence examples with “Got”?
The difference between “Get” and Got is that Get is the present tense of the verb and Got is the past tense form. Although the tenses are often used interchangeably. “Got” is often questioned with “Do you get it?” to check the listener’s comprehension in informal speech, “i.” It is a question answerable with “I get it” or “I got it” which are both considered correct. There are better ways to create a sentence with numerous words instead of using got in different ways. For example, “I got (understood) the lesson she taught yesterday.” The word “got” can be replaced with the word understood to make it more formal. Another example is, “I got (took) my bag with me to the doctor’s appointment.” The word “got”  can be replaced with the word “took” so that it can easily be understood instead of using the same word.
When to use the word “Got” in a sentence?
The word “got” must not be used to give emphasis to the words ‘has’ or ‘have’ because it is considered grammatically wrong. Although, “got” has numerous ways to be used in a sentence. it can be used as an alternative for the word became. “Got” is applicable in informal writing and speaking. However, it is considered incorrect when used in a formal way. A synonym for the word “got” is the same as the synonyms for the word “get” but in past tense form. The word “brought”, which is the past tense of the “bring”, is the synonym for the word “got”. While for earn, the synonym is earned. These are used when talking about something from the past.
What are the synonyms of “Got”?
“Achieved” and “attained” are some of the synonymous terms for the word “got”.  The word “achieved” is defined as “to succeed in reaching a particular goal, status or standard”, according to the Oxford dictionary,  For example, “I
achieved (got)
to advance to a higher year level”.  The sentence implies that the person speaking moved to a higher year level. Another synonym for the word “got” is “attained”. “Attained” is defined as “to succeed in getting something” in the Oxford Dictionary. For example, “She
attained (got)
her scholarship in less than 5 months.” The sentence denotes that the speaker attained her scholarship in just 5 months. The difference in using the word “got” instead of the actual words is evident in the sentence. It is formally written and it is easier to read and to understand if  words that are better compared to the word “got” are used.
What does “Gotten” Mean?
“Gotten” is the past participle of get in North America. It is known as the ‘newer’ way of connecting the word get. “Gotten” is the past participle form of “get”, showing the trace of the Old English form of the verb. The word “gotten” is defined as “the past participle of get”, according to the Oxford Dictionary,  The first use of “gotten” came from the British even though it is said that the word gotten came from North America. The word “gotten” was used first in the fourth century. The first few people who used the word “gotten” were Shakespeare, Bacon and Pope before it was transported across the atlantic. “Gotten” is still used up to this day by the people in the United States, America and Canada. However, “gotten” is labeled as “phased out” mostly in the UK and Britain.
What are the sentence examples with “Gotten”?
The usage of got and gotten differed depending on the context. Gotten, which is the past participle form of the verb, is preferred to be used in Canada and in the United States. Although got is used in all varieties as the simple past form, outside of North America, got is the preferred past participle of get. There are no other variations for the word gotten but it has synonyms that can be used in a different context. The usage of got and gotten differed depending on the context.
When to use the word “Gotten” in a sentence?
It is crucial for writers and speakers to know when to use the word “gotten” in a sentence. The first example sentence for the words “have gotten”
is
,
“I have gotten a t

[...truncated...]