Are vs. Our: Difference between Them - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
“Are” and “our” are two correctly spelled English words that mean different things. The linking verb “are” is a plural present tense of the term “is.” The word “are” is used to replace the word “is” when the sentence is talking or has switched to a plural topic. On the other hand, the term “our” is a part of an adjective called a determiner. The word “our” is used to indicate that an object belongs or associated with someone. “Our” is used to express someone’s ownership of things such as clothes, gadgets, or houses. There is a common misinterpretation and misuse of “are” and “Our”, especially by non-native English writers. The “are vs. our” difference is mostly highlighted in their meaning, spelling, and usage.
Listed below are the differences between the words “are” and “our”.
“Are” is used when the subject described in the sentence is in plural form or the sentence is describing more than two entities.
“Are” is a linking verb used to replace “is.”
“Are” is a three-letter word spelled starting with the letter “A.”
“Are” lemmatized version is “be,” while its stemmed versions is “aren’t.”
“Our” is used to express that the subject involved in the sentence belongs to someone.
“Our” is a possessive determiner.
“Our” is commonly associated with a group and describes their ownership of something.
“Our” is a three-letter word spelled starting with the letter “O.”
“Our” has no lemmatized version, while its stemmed versions are “ours”
The meaning and context must be looked at in deciding whether to use the words “are” or “our.” The terms “are” and “our” are entirely different from each other, and they serve completely unrelated purposes. The word “are” must be chosen when the writer is aiming to connect the subject and an adjective, when the writer is describing something. On the other hand, the word “our” must be picked if the sentence requires a first person possessive word that acts as a primary indicator that both the writer together or the subject with other people own something. The spelling must not be the only basis as it is a shallow reference. Digging deeper into the essence of “are” and “our” allows one to have a better decision and select the appropriate word to be used in a sentence.
Some examples of the word “are” in a sentence include, “The birds are flying in the sky like airplanes.” “These pairs of shoes are so beautiful yet so expensive.” The usage of the word “are” in these sentences is correct as it was utilized as a “be” verb that links plural clauses. An example of the word “our” in a sentence includes, “The white house with modernized design located near the shore is our home.” Another example of “our” in a sentence is, “The victory in the recent football game belongs to our team.” These sentences used the word “our” as a determiner to express ownership and possession which is entirely accurate to its purpose.
“Why know the difference between “are” and “our” for content writing and marketing?” The difference between the words “are” and “our” must be known to write better content and communicate in a healthier way. The words “are” and “our” are completely similar in terms of pronunciation and being confused between them is highly possible. Content writers are obliged to study the word “are” and “our” to use them properly and avoid misuse. Misusing and interchanging the words “are” and “our” leads to confusion and misinterpretation among readers. Apart from that, content writers are considered to be unprofessional and lack expertise in content writing.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does “Are” Mean?
1.1.
What are the Sentence Examples with “Are”?
1.2.
When to Use the Word “Are” in a Sentence?
1.3.
What are the Synonyms of “Are”?
1.3.1.
What are the Antonyms of “Are”?
1.4.
How to spell “Are”?
1.5.
What are the prepositions and helper words for Are?
2.
What does “Our” Mean?
2.1.
What are the Sentence Examples with “Our”?
2.2.
When to Use the Word “Our” in a sentence?
2.3.
What are the Synonyms of “Our”?
2.3.1.
What are the Antonyms of “Our”?
2.3.2.
What is the plural form of “Our”
2.4.
How to Spell “Our”?
2.5.
What are the prepositions and helper words for “Our”?
3.
Comparison between “Are” and “Our”
4.
Why are “Are” and “Our” misused and interchangeably in English?
4.1.
Are “Are” and “Our” in the most commonly misused English words?
4.2.
What are the other similar Misused Word Pairs like “Our” and “Are” in English?
5.
How do Content Writers use “Are” and “Our” in their articles?
5.1.
Do Writers use “Are” and “Our” in the wrong way?
5.2.
Do Misused Words such as “Our” and “Are” Affect Our SEO and UX?
What does “Are” Mean?
The word “are” refers to a plural subject means that a subject is plural and must be connected to the succeeding words in the sentences. “Are” is used to replace “is” whenever the subject has another companion or when it is expressed in a greater number than one. The word “are” originated from the Latin word
area
which was introduced and first used in 1797. According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the definition of the word “are” is “a part of a “be” verb.” The term “word” is a very common English word, mainly because it is used by all writers in constructing their sentences in plural form. It is an important word for the daily lives of people since it allows them to connect the plural phrases into one sentence and convey a complete thought.
What are the Sentence Examples with “Are”?
Listed below are the sentence examples with “Are.”
“The stars in the sky
are
stunning.” The “are” in the sentence helps indicate that there is more than one star in the sky. Additionally, it linked the subject “stars” to its adjective “stunning.”
“The dog and cat
are
both adorable pets.” The English word “are” in the sentence implies that there is more than one subject in the sentence. The words “dog” and “cat” alone are singular nouns. However, they are connected by the word “and” to indicate that they are both the subject of the sentence. It makes the subject of the sentence plural, one dog and one cat.
“The ballerinas
are
dancing gracefully.” The word “are” in the sentence indicates that there is more than one ballerina dancing on the dance floor. Additionally, it linked the subject, “ballerinas,” with another verb, “dancing,” to indicate what the ballerinas are doing.
“The newly-released smartphones of 2022
are
battery-efficient.” The term “are” in the sentence is used to describe the subject, “smartphones.” It means that there is more than one mobile phone being described in the sentence. Additionally, it linked the subject “smartphones” with its adjective “battery-efficient.”
When to Use the Word “Are” in a Sentence?
The word “are” must be used in sentences that discuss plural subjects and topics. The English term “are” is associated with subjects that are two or more since “is” is only applicable for describing one variable. Apart from that, are must be used prior to an adjective, as it links the subject with the descriptive word. For instance, “She is gorgeous.” There are no known synonyms of the word “are” due to the fact that it is only a linking verb. Unlike words such as nouns and adjectives where there are other terms for them that are spelled differently but mean the same thing.
What are the Synonyms of “Are”?
The word “are” does not have any direct or indirect synonym existing in the English vocabulary. It is a word that falls under the category of linking verbs, by which their purpose in a sentence is to link the different words with each other to create a complete sentence. The word “are” stays in the same form regardless of how many repetitions the content writer has made in one particular article. Opposite to other words where it becomes grammatically incorrect when being repeatedly used due to redundancy, the word “are” is allowed to be used multiple times without committing any mistake. “Are” is similar to other linking verbs such as “is,” “was,” “become,” and “were” that do not have any synonyms that associate with them.
What are the Antonyms of “Are”?
There are no antonyms that are made for the word “are.” It is only a word that serves as a connecting structure to two different phrases. Compared to other words that belong under nouns and adjectives, the word “are” has no complete essence or thought. It is a word that does not stand on its own; hence, no other words have a contradictory meaning to them. On top of that, there are no words that have the purpose of disconnecting two plural phrases in a sentence.
How to spell “Are”?
The spelling of the word “are” is “A-R-E.” It is spelled with only three letters. The first letter of the word is “a” followed by the letter “r” and ends with the letter “e.” Some common spellings of the word “are” include “our,” “hour” “ar,” and “r.” The reason for the misspellings is their similar pronunciation. “Are,” “our,” and “hour” are all correct English words but differ in terms of spelling. On the other hand, the words “au-ur” “ar” and “r,” are grammatically correct due to misspellings. The letter “E” on the word “are” is not pronounced, making it seem like it does not even exist in the spelling in the first place. “R” is an internet slang or shortened version of “are” used in casual conversations with other people online.
What are the prepositions and helper words for Are?
Plural nouns are used as the main helper words for “are.” Plural nouns are words indicating more than one person, place, thing, and idea. They are commonly used together with “are” because the noun is connected by the linking verb “are” with other parts of the sentence. A linking verb is a word that describes the subject of the sentence. “Are” is used together with plural nouns because it is a plural linking verb indicating that the subject is more than one. For example, “The cats
are
playing on the roof.” The word “cats” means there is more than one cat. It is connected with playing by using “are” to tell what the cats are doing. “Are” is going to be replaced by “is” if the subject of the sentence is singular. For example, “The cat
is
(are) playing on the roof.” The word “cat” is singular; thus, “is,” singular form of “are” is used.” Other helper words for “are” are prepositions, such as “in,” “on,” “at,” and “for.” They are used to determine the time, location, spatial relationships, and places. For example, “The apples
are
in the fridge.” The “Are” is followed by the preposition “in” indicating that the “apple” is inside the fridge.
What does “Our” Mean?
The word “our” means something belongs or is under the possession of someone. The word “our” is a first-person determiner that is used to refer to the ownership of someone and of other individuals. The origin and etymology of the word our is from Old English “ure” or “us.” It was first used and introduced in the 12th century. The definition of the word “our” in the Oxford English Dictionary is, “belonging to us” or “connected to us.” It is a very common word in the English language since it exists in almost all the contexts of ownership sentences, such as in properties or awards. The word “our” is an important word for the daily lives of each person because it offers a convenient way of expressing belongingness and ownership.
What are the Sentence Examples with “Our”?
Listed below are the sentence examples with “Our.”
“The wardrobe malfunction from the stage presentation yesterday was
our
mistake.” “The “Our” in the sentence pertains to the “mistake” being owned by someone, specifically more than one person.
“Our neighbors were all glad because the typhoon did not hit
our
hometown.” The “Our” in the sentence pertains to the “hometown” being owned by the citizens. It means that more than one person owns or lives in the “hometown.”
“The cleaning tools that you used last week belong to
our
class.” The “Our” in the sentence is used to state that the “class” belongs to the students.
“
Our
mom bought us snacks when she arrived from a business trip.” The “Our” is used to imply that the mom is the mother of many children.
When to Use the Word “Our” in a sentence?
The word “our” must be used in sentences together with nouns or pronouns that are subjected to be owned. “Our” is placed in the sentence if the meaning that writers or markets want to deliver is all about possession or ownership. “Our” has no direct synonym, but it is related to the word “My” because they express ownership and possession. However, the first one is plural, and the latter is plural. Meanwhile, “our” must not be used interchangeably with the word ‘Are” due to the differences in meaning. It is going to cause incorrectness in grammar structure. Nonetheless, they are allowed to be used in one sentence. The subject must be in the plural form, and it must be in the ownership or possession of someone to use “are” and “our” in the same sentence. For example, “The pets are a gift from our parents.” First, the “are” is used as a linking verb of the plural subject, “pets.” Second, the “our” is used to imply that the “parents” are the father and mother of the children.
What are the Synonyms of “Our”?
There is no complete and direct similar word that describes the same meaning as the word “our.” However, the word “my” is closely related to the term “our” because it indicates ownership in a similar manner, but only one person owns that particular thing being described. “Our” is the plural form, and “my” is the singular form. The word “my” means only a single person has possession of a particular object. It is used primarily to indicate the property of the person speaking.
What are the Antonyms of “Our”?
There are no antonyms for “our” in the English dictionary. The word “our” has no equivalent word that describes the opposite meaning. However, content writers must use “not” together with “our” when trying to express that something is not a part of someone’s ownership. For example, “It is not our kitchen that is causin

[...truncated...]
