Bingeing or Binging: Which one is Correct?  - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
“Bingeing” and “binging” are the two accepted correct spellings and forms by reliable grammar textbooks and dictionaries. The root word of “bingeing” and “binging” is “Binge.” The correct suffix that is used in “bingeing” and “binging” is “ing”, which is a gerund. However, there is no prefix added in “bingeing” and “binging,” mainly because the first part serves as the root word and prefix. The past tense spelling of “bingeing” and “binging” is “binged.” The future tense and past tense of “bingeing” and “binging” is simply “binge.” The usage of incorrect spelling, particularly “bingeing” and “binging” negatively affects the quality of a particular article or content. It makes the sentences incomprehensible, and the information contained within those sentences is not correctly delivered to the readers. Thus, the communication between the content writer and reader is being interfered with due to misspellings. Apart from that, it shows that the content writer is not skilled and knowledgeable enough to write content.
Listed below are the example sentences of the correct usage of “bingeing” and “binging.”
“The nursing student
bingeing
the movie yesterday despite having an examination today.” The “bingeing” was appropriately used for correct spelling, and the information was delivered strictly as intended.
“You are
bingeing
that beer that is too harmful to your health. The sentence is well-structured due to the correct usage of “bingeing.” The word was used to discuss excessive drinking.
“
Binging
is terrible because everything excessive does harm regardless of how positive the activity is.” The word “binging” was correctly used in the sentence; hence, it was able to convey the meaning precisely.
“She was diagnosed with type II diabetes because she was
binging
sugary foods.” The sentence example was written correctly and had a very good structure, mainly due to the correct spelling of the word “binging.”
Contents of the Article
show
1.
Which one is Correct, Bingeing or Binging?
1.1.
How to Pronounce “Bingeing”?
1.2.
What are the Correct Examples of “Bingeing” in Sentences?
2.
“How to Spell Bingeing and Binging” Correctly in Past Tense?
2.1.
How to Pronounce “Binging”?
3.
What is the meaning of Bingeing?
3.1.
What is the Etymology of Binging?
3.2.
How to Use Bingeing in Sentences?
3.2.1.
What are the Synonyms of Bingeing?
4.
What to Know for Using “Bingeing” and “Binging” for Using in Content Writing?
4.1.
How to Fix Incorrect uses of Bingeing in Content Writing and Marketing?
4.2.
What are the Other Misspelled Examples similar to “Bingeing and Binging”?
4.2.1.
How does Writing “Bingeing” wrong affect SEO and Content Marketing?
Which one is Correct, Bingeing or Binging?
“Bingeing” and “binging” are both grammatically acceptable in terms of spelling according to any dictionaries. These words are used interchangeably because they share the same meaning. However, the word “bingeing” is more popular nowadays compared to “binging.” The root word for “bingeing” and “binging” is “binge,” which means an excessive or exaggerated act or engagement in a particular activity. “Binging” is only spelled with seven letters and contains two vowels. On the other hand, “bingeing” has eight letters including three vowels, with the addition of the letter “e.” An example of “bingeing” or “binging” in a sentence is, “The worms are bingeing/binging over the rotten apple placed on the table.” The two words were used in the sentence since they are both correct and allowed to be used interchangeably. The meaning of the sentence does not change whether the word “bingeing” or “binging” is used. It is only a matter of preference.
How to Pronounce “Bingeing”?
The pronunciation of the word “bingeing” is bin-juhng. “Bingeing” is a word with two varying syllables and is spoken verbally with two distinct sounds. The “binge” part which is the root word is pronounced as “binj.” The “ing” part of the word which is the suffix is pronounced as “ing”. The two sounds when combined, become bin-juhng. The pronunciation of “bingeing” is quite difficult for beginners compared to “binging” as its additional letter “e” gives a confusing impression.
What are the Correct Examples of “Bingeing” in Sentences?
The correct examples of “bingeing” in sentences are listed below.
“She’s been
bingeing
the sleeping pills because of her insomnia.” “Bingeing” was used in the sentence as a verb that expresses the status of the activity being done by the subject.
“I have seen her
bingeing
the food in her food container due to intense hunger brought by the military training.” The sentence used “bingeing” as a primary word to describe the excessive eating activity of the subject.
“The medical technologist is
bingeing
the alcohol to sanitize her hands very well.” The example sentence has “bingeing” which was utilized as a verb that serves as a description of the excessive act happening.
“Drake and Jacob are
bingeing
the anime they are watching because they have a lot of time due to the semester break.” The purpose of “bingeing” in the sentence is to emphasize how the act of watching anime is excessive within a short amount of time.
“We cannot really tell that this person is
bingeing
illegal drugs because upon checking the results of the different drug tests, he tested negative in all the tests.” The word “bingeing” in the example exists as the main indicator that the act that has been done was excessive and forbidden.
The incorrect spelling of the term “bingeing” is “bengeing” and “bingieng.” Recognizing that the word “bingeing” has two letter “i” and one letter “e” is the way to properly distinguish the correct form from the incorrect one. The first letter “i” comes before the letter “e”. On the other hand, the second letter “i” comes after the letter “e.” The incorrect form “bengeing” has two letters “e” which makes it automatically incorrect whereas the word “bingieng” is incorrect because the second letter “i” is placed first before the letter “e.”
“How to Spell Bingeing and Binging” Correctly in Past Tense?
The spelling of the terms “bingeing” and “binging” correctly in the past tense is “B-I-N-G-E-D.” The addition of the suffix “d” is the proper and only correct way to spell “bingeing” and “binging” in the past tense. One of the English grammar rules is to add “e” or “ed” at the end of the root word when spelled in the past tense form. There are no other suffixes to be used when spelling “bingeing” and “binging” in their past tense form, so using other letters apart from “d” is considered incorrect. “Bingeing” and “binging” have the same past tense form despite the spelling differences because they came from the same root word which is “binge.”
“We went to Cristina’s house yesterday and had so much fun. We had
binged
almost all the movies present on their movie shelf, and we also ate a lot of homemade popcorn.”
“You know what, you have
binged
that tequila since we entered this bar. Stop that, it’s not good for you.”
The verb tenses that are utilized in sentences influence both the structure and context of the article. The verb tenses indicate whether the statement is being discussed in the past, present, or future. Hence, the appropriate verb tenses make the sentences more understandable and meaningful to the readers. For example, the sentence, “She was my idol, I binged her music before when she was still not problematic,” indicates that the sentence happened in the past and is not existing in the present time anymore. However, if the words “bingeing” and “binging” were used, the sentence sounds like it exists in the present. Therefore, verb tenses must always be observed and used appropriately to avoid misinterpretation of information.
How to Pronounce “Binging”?
The pronunciation of the word “binging” is bin-juhng which is completely similar to the pronunciation of “bingeing.” “Binging” contains two different sounds coming from its two varying syllables. The first sound is caused by the syllable of the root word “binge” which is pronounced as “binj.” The second sound is from the gerund suffix which is “Ing” and pronounced as “Ing.” The two pronunciations, when combined into one, are pronounced as “bin-jung.”
What is the meaning of Bingeing?
The meaning of “bingeing” is “engaging in an activity uncontrollably, especially eating, drinking, or taking drugs” or “watching several episodes of a television or online show within a short amount of time.” The word “bingeing” is utilized in sentences that discuss activities that are being done beyond normal. The etymology of “bingeing” is “soak” from a Lincolnshire dialect that was used in the 19th century. It means individuals who are drinking excessively are letting their brains be soaked in alcohol.
“People with low amygdala activity are more likely than others not just to jump from airplanes or tease dangerous animals but also to engage in dangerous substance use, such as binge drinking.”
The Atlantic
article by Arthur C. Brook author shows the correct usage of the “binge” word, which has the same meaning as “bingeing.” The word “bingeing” here is used to describe excessive drinking as one of the activities that individuals with low amygdala are most likely to indulge in.
“Rather than break up a streaming show with a selection of traditional commercials, Ancestry decided to create a short film that its executives hoped would be as enticing as anything else consumers tried to binge.” The article entitled variety by the author Brian Steinberj. The sentence in the article used “binge” or “bingeing” correctly. “Binge” or “bingeing” in the sentences was used to discuss a short film that is to be created which is expected to be watched in a short period of time due to its great quality.
“But eating disorders encompass a much wider range of behaviors, including food restriction and/or obsession without weight loss, extreme picky eating, and binge eating.” in the article
Outside Online
written by Christine Byrne. The word “binge” or “bingeing” was appropriate in a sentence. “Binge” or “bingeing” in the sentence was utilized to talk about the excessive manner of eating as a part of the symptoms of eating disorders.
“Due to the forced binge drinking, Foltz spent almost three days in a coma and died on March 7, 2021, from alcohol poising, the lawsuit alleged.” from the article by
ABC News.
The article utilized “binge” or “bingeing” as a part of their sentence to give emphasize to excessive drinking as the cause of death.
“He would watch what he ate and take long walks, only to fall behind on his medication and
binge
on sleeves of fun-size chocolate bars.” in the article
For Years, Jamarcus Crews Tried To Get a New Kidney, But Corporate Healthcare Stood in The Way by the author Lizzie Presser.
The article has been able to use “binge” or “bingeing” as part of the sentence correctly. The word “binge” or “bingeing” was utilized as a verb that describes the excessive behavior of the patient that eats a forbidden food due to their illness.
What is the Etymology of Binging?
The etymology of the word “binging” is “soak” from the Leicestershire and Northamptonshire dialect. It is a term that became popularized in the 19th century due to the concept of individuals who engage in overconsumption of alcohol and let their brains be soaked. “Bingeing” is used to describe excessive engagement in a series of activities such as eating, drinking, and watching television shows in the present era.
How to Use Bingeing in Sentences?
The usage of “bingeing” in a particular sentence requires the topic to be about excessive activities in a short period of time. The term “bingeing” was made to be a primary description of certain acts that go beyond what is moderate or normal. “Bingeing” is associated with the words overeating, overdose, and overdrinking, among others. Therefore, it is very appropriate to use “bingeing” in sentences with topics about indulging in excessive activities as it helps in emphasizing and presenting the information more clearly. An example of “bingeing” in a sentence is, “She was binging the food in the eat-all-you-can restaurant out of hunger due to seven days of fasting. The synonyms of “bingeing” are “debauch” and “booze-up.”
What are the Synonyms of Bingeing?
“Binging” is not commonly used in the English language to describe a particular topic associated with being excessive. Therefore, only a few synonyms are linked to the word “binging.”
The synonyms of the term “binging” are listed below.
Debauch: “
Debauch” is a word that describes the meaning “an excessive indulgence in desirable satisfaction, specifically eating and drinking for a short span of time.” “Debauch” and “binging” are two similar words because they are both discussing an act that is overly done within a small portion of time, especially for the purpose of pleasure and happiness.
Booze-up:
“Booze-up” is a term that means “a drinking spree.” “Booze-up” defines a drinking act that is more than normal or usual. Similar to “binging”, “Booze-up” defines excessive activities for satisfaction and enjoyment.
“Should I use a synonym if I do not remember the correct form?” Yes, a synonym must be used when the correct word is forgotten. The usage of synonyms is highly recommended in circumstances where the correct spelling is not clearly remembered. Synonyms have exact or almost similar meanings to the original word; hence, using them does not literally change the whole context of the sentence. Forcing to use a word that is not remembered results in misspellings and incorrect usage, which causes confusion and misinterpretation to the readers.
What to Know for Using “Bingeing” and “Binging” for Using in Content Writing?
“Bingeing” and “binging” are words that have similar meanings and are allowed to be used interchangeably in sentences.
“Bingeing” and “binging” are the same in terms of accent, regardless of which country they are us

[...truncated...]
