Accept vs Except: Difference between Them and How to correctly use them - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The word “Accept” is defined as consent to receive or acquire something. It is a common word that is often interchangeably used with the word “except”. The word “except”, on the other hand, means not including or other than. These words sound alike, but they have a slight difference in their spelling. “Accept and Except” is commonly misused in English. “Accept and Except” are confusing words to use in a sentence. It has something to do with their spelling and the way they pronounce them. One has encountered getting confused using these words, “Accept vs. Except”, which word to use in a particular sentence? The answer is that it depends. “Accept or Except”, are both common English terms used every day. The word “Accept” is used when conveying a message that demonstrates receiving or gaining something. The word “Except” is used when a sentence is conveying to exclude something in a specific category or group. It is important to note the difference between the two words. Accept and Except are just a few of the numerous English words that are usually misused
Listed below are the differences between the words “Accept” and “Except”.
“Accept” means to receive or gain something.
“Accept” is commonly used as a verb.
“Except” means to exclude or leave out.
“Except” is commonly used as a preposition. It is used as a conjunction that is followed by “that”.
“Accept” and ‘Except” sound alike, but when used in a particular sentence conveys a totally different meaning. Always remember their proper spelling when using these two words. These words have almost the same spelling, they only differ in their first two letters. These words present a different message to the reader when used interchangeably. Here are sample sentences to differentiate the proper usage of the words “Accept” and ‘Except”. Sample sentence of the word “Accept” is “Christine is allowed to accept suitors”. “ The boy accepts the gift from his godmother”. Sample sentence of the word “Except” is “Everything is perfect except for that tiny red spot on my dress”. “There was no one else in the park, except myself”. The sample sentences demonstrate the proper usage of the words ‘Accept’ and “Except”. The first two sentences show that there is something gained or acquired. The sentences that contain the word “except” conveys excluding something from a particular group or category. It is common to misuse several English words, especially if one is not familiar with their true meaning and spelling. The word “alot” is commonly used, however, it is grammatically incorrect. The proper term must be “a lot”, having space between the words “a” and “lot.” “A lot” means “a large number or quantity. These grammatical errors must be avoided because it alters the true meaning of a sentence.
It is essential to remember that a message or information must be right or correct when writing something. Using misused words or incorrect spelling indicates poor writing skills. Authors or content writers must use the proper words and spelling to create quality content in Content writing. No one buys products from a website that contains poor grammar and wrong spelling in their advertising. The words must be chosen correctly and written properly to be able to convey a message. “How can one sell in Marketing if the advertisements are poorly written and with grammatical errors?” Using the appropriate words when writing is essential because it delivers the right information or message one would like to convey.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does “Accept” Mean?
1.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Accept”?
1.2.
When to use the word “Accept” in a sentence?
1.3.
What are the synonyms of “Accept”?
1.3.1.
What are the antonyms of “Accept”?
1.4.
How to spell “Accept”?
1.5.
Is “Accept” a preposition?
2.
What does “Except” Mean?
2.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Except”?
2.2.
When to use the word “Except” in a sentence?
2.3.
What are the synonyms of “Except”?
2.3.1.
What are the antonyms of “Except”?
2.4.
How to spell “Except”?
3.
Is “Except” a preposition?
4.
Comparison between “Accept” and “Except”
5.
Why are “Accept” and “Except” misused and interchangeably in English?
5.1.
Are “Accept” and “Except” the most commonly misused English words?
5.2.
What are the other similar Misused Word Pairs like “Except” and “Accept” in English?
6.
How do Content Writers use “Accept” and “Except” in their articles?
6.1.
Do Content Writers use “Accept” and “Except” in the wrong way?
6.2.
Do Misused Words such as “Except” and “Accept” affect SEO and UX?
What does “Accept” Mean?
The word “Accept” means to receive or take willingly. The origin of the word “Accept” came from the Old French accepter or directly from the Latin acceptare “take or receive willingly, “frequentative or accipere “receive, get without effort, “from ad “to”, from PIE root kap meaning “to grasp”. The etymology of the word “accept” was first established in about 1380 from Middle English accepter, or from the Latin accepto, acceptare (“receive”), frequentative of accipio, formed from ad-+capio (‘to take”). The Oxford Dictionary defines the word “accept” as to take willingly something that is offered. People started to use the word “Accept” in the 14th century. The word “Accept” is a verb commonly used in the English language. It is an important word used in daily life because its meaning means to agree or to take something that is given. The word “Accept” is a verb that is mostly used on a daily basis, especially when a person is agreeing to something, or accepting something that is offered. The word “accept” is usually used when someone is gaining or receiving something.
What are the sentence examples with “Accept”?
Listed below are the sentence examples with “Accept”.
Please
accept
my sincerest gratitude.
She could not
accept
the fact that her beloved dog was gone.
Robert should
accept
full accountability for his actions.
Lady Patricia was kind enough to
accept
our invitation.
When to use the word “Accept” in a sentence?
The word “Accept” is used in a sentence as a verb. It is often used in situations in which something is acquired. The word “accept” is used when receiving something. One synonym for the word “accept” is “receive”. It is often times mistaken for the word “except.” “Accept” and “except” are two misused words. However, both words are used in one sentence, to differentiate their meaning. For example “Luis told me that he’ll accept all the gifts except Lady’s gift.” From that sentence example, “accept” was used as a verb to indicate acceptance of the gifts, while “except” was used as a conjunction that meant to “exclude” the gift of Mary. The two words have the same sound and almost the same spelling, however, their meanings are the exact opposite.
What are the synonyms of “Accept”?
“Accept” is a word that has several synonyms. Some of these synonyms include receive, obtain, acquire, take, gain, welcome, and others. These words mean to acquire or receive something. The word “accept” is commonly used in the English language, however, it has various synonyms that can be used as an alternative. For example “Samuel welcome (accepts) donations from other people to fund his studies.” Another example is “The server gladly (take) accepts tips from customers.” These words from the sample sentences are used as an alternative for the word “accept”.
What are the antonyms of “Accept”?
Listed below are the antonyms of “Accept”.
Disapprove:
Express an unfavorable opinion about something.
Disfavor:
Regard something with dislike.
Frown:
A facial expression of disapproval.
Discountenance:
Refuse to approve.
Dislike:
A feeling of distaste.
Hate:
An intense feeling of dislike.
Detest:
To feel intense and often violent antipathy toward.
Object:
To express one’s disapproval of something.
Dissent:
To hold or express opinions that are at variance with those previously, commonly, or officially expressed.
Oppose:
Actively resist or refuse to comply with (a person or a system).
Dispute:
Argue about or discuss heatedly.
Question:
A sentence to draw out information.
Distrust:
Regard with suspicion.
Doubt:
To feel uncertain about someone or something.
Suspect:
Doubt the genuineness or truth of.
Challenge:
An objection or query as to the truth of something.
Renounce:
Reject and stop using or consuming.
Refuse:
Indicates that one is not willing to do something.
Decline:
Politely refuse.
Fight:
A violent confrontation or struggle.
Dismiss:
Treat as unworthy of serious consideration.
Reject:
Dismiss as inadequate, or not to one’s taste.
Resist:
Withstand the action or effect.
Turn down:
Reject something offered or proposed.
Evade:
Escape or avoid, especially by cleverness or trickery.
Combat:
Take action to reduce or prevent something undesirable.
Abstain:
Restrain oneself from doing or enjoying something.
Back down:
Withdraw a claim or assertion in the face of opposition.
Forgo:
Omit or decline to take (something pleasant or valuable).
Refrain:
Stop oneself from doing something.
How to spell “Accept”?
The correct spelling of the word “Accept” is A-C-C-E-P-T. The word “Accept”  is a verb that means “to take or receive something.” It is commonly misspelled as “Except.” The word “Except” means “to exclude or leave out.”
Is “Accept” a preposition?
No, the word ‘Accept” is not a preposition. “Accept” is a verb that means “to gain something willingly.” ‘Accept” is usually used to indicate agreement. The adverb version of “Accept” is “Acceptably.” The adjective version of “Accept” is “Acceptable.” The noun version of “Accept” is “Acceptance.”
What does “Except” Mean?
The definition of “Except” is to exclude or leave out. The word “Except” comes from Latin except-” taken out”, from the verb excipere, from ex-” out of” + capere “take.” The first known use of the word ‘except” was in the 14th century. Often, the word “except” is used as a preposition meaning but excluding, and is a common English word. It is an essential word for daily life because the word “except” is used as a preposition, a verb, and as a conjunction.
What are the sentence examples with “Except”?
Listed below are the sentence examples with “Except”.
The barbershop is open daily,
except
on weekends.
Everything was in good order
except
the boots.
Nothing was left in the pantry
except
some milk.
All the students left
except
for Alex.
When to use the word “Except” in a sentence?
“Except” is typically used as a preposition followed by a noun. It means “not including,” “other than,” or “but” in this function. The word “except” when used in a sentence, is usually followed by the word “for”. It is used before a conjunction such as “when” and “if.” The word “except” would mean “but” when used as a preposition. “Except” typically follows the words “that”, meaning “only” or “except for” when used in conjunction. To use the word “except”, note that it means one is taking out something in a particular category. “Except” is a common English word that is used widely every day. “Except” is oftentimes misused and interchangeably used with the word “accept.” “Except” delivers a different message as opposed to its original meaning when used incorrectly. Knowing when to use the correct word is essential when writing. Identifying the correct spelling and true meaning is the key to using a word properly.
What are the synonyms of “Except”?
The word “except” has numerous synonyms. Some of these synonyms are excluding, besides, but, exclude, other than, and many others. “Except” can be used in a sentence as a verb that demonstrates acceptance or receiving of something. One sentence example of the proper usage of the word “except” in a sentence:“ The Church is open daily except for Mondays.” The word “except” is used as a preposition. There are other terms for “except” that can be used in a sentence. For example, “The students in our school attended the Christmas ball, besides (except) Katie.” The word “besides” was used as an alternative for “except”. Another alternative sentence where a synonym of “except” is used. Sample sentence, “The students in our school attended the Christmas ball, other than (except) Katie.”
What are the antonyms of “Except”?
Listed below are the antonyms of ‘Except”.
Approve:
Officially agree to or accept as satisfactory.
Accept:
Consent to receive (a thing offered).
Agree:
Consent to do something suggested by another person.
Comply:
Act in accordance with a wish or command.
Conform:
Comply with rules, standards, or laws.
Follow:
Come after in time or order.
Obey:
Behave in accordance with (a general principle, natural law, etc.)
Observe:
Notice or perceive (something) and register it as being significant.
Advocate:
Publicly recommend or support.
Maintain:
Cause or enable (a condition or state of affairs) to continue.
Support:
Give assistance to, enable to function or act.
Sustain:
Strengthen or support physically or mentally.
Uphold:
Confirm or support (something which has been questioned).
Commend:
Praise formally.
Welcome:
Used to greet someone in a friendly way.
Receive:
Be given, or presented with.
Take in:
Include or encompass something.
Admit:
Confess to be true.
Include:
Comprise or contain as part of a whole.
Embrace:
Accept or support willingly.
How to spell “Except”?
The correct spelling of the word “Except” is E-X-C-E-P-T. “Except” means excluding or with the exception of. Most of the time, “except” is misused in a sentence, especially with the word “Accept”. These two words sound alike, but they differ in meaning. “Except” has a spelling that begins with the letter “E.” The second word is the letter “X,” and it ends with the word “cept.” Knowing the correct spelling of a particular word helps a lot in delivering a proper message in a sentence.
Is “Except” a preposition?
Yes, the word “Except” is a preposition that means “But”. The word “Except” is used as a preposition followed by a noun. A prep

[...truncated...]
