What does PMSL (Pissing Myself Laughing) Acronym Mean? - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
PMSL is an abbreviation for the expression “Pissing Myself Laughing.” PMSL was used by European football players in their funny and hilarious football discussions. Since then, the PMSL abbreviation has become more popular, and people outside the football field have started using it as a convenient form of expression. The phrase “Pissing Myself Laughing” was invented since incidents during a football game are considered to be very silly and entertaining topics, especially when a football team talks about the defeat of their opponents. For instance, “The football player from the other team earlier tripped and fell, PMSL!” PMSL is written either in uppercase letters or is acceptable in lowercase as well.  The PMSL abbreviation must only be used in situations that require to be laughed at. These include conversations with friends, casual exchange of jokes with family members, and articles that needed to be written with informality to be relevant and interactive. On the other hand, PMSL must not be utilized in a context that values formality and proper structure of grammar such as in professional reports and academic papers. An Internet meme is a series of content that
The PMSL text means a burst of an extreme and uncontrollable laugh regarding a hilarious and silly topic. The PMSL text is usually used in conversations and forums that take place on digital platforms such as social media sites. Communicating through text requires a lot of words to describe some expressions, but with the PMSL word, netizens are capable to deliver their message in a short and convenient way. PMSL is similar to other internet slang such as LMAO that is used to communicate. The PMSL and LMAO differences are seen in how extremely the laugh is being described. PMSL is a more intense way of laughter as it indicates a person pissing due to laughing very hard. Netizens are fond of innovating existing internet slang to express that they are laughing above what traditional internet slang does. One of the most prominent forms of entertainment on the internet right now is the internet meme.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
Who found PMSL Abbreviation?
1.1.
Do People use PMSL for face-to-face Communication?
1.2.
Is PMSL only for textual communication?
2.
What do Scott Molski and Silvio Lacetti thin about PMSL and Internet Slang?
3.
What does Linguist John McWhorter think about PMSL?
3.1.
Is PMSL a Pragmatic Particle?
4.
When did Oxford English Dictionary accepted the PMSL Abbreviation?
4.1.
Is the oldest use of PMSL in Usenet from 1980s?
5.
What are the Variants of PMSL?
5.1.
What are the Derivations of PMSL?
5.2.
What are the related terms to PMSL?
5.3.
What are the Foreign Equivalents of PMSL from other Languages?
6.
How do Content Writers use PMSL for communicating with Customers?
6.1.
Do Social Media Marketers use PMSL?
6.2.
Does PMSL a not serious term for SEO Content?
Who found PMSL Abbreviation?
The founder of the PMSL abbreviation is the British football community. The PMSL abbreviation indicates and expresses laughter in an extreme manner. PMSL was introduced and popularized in 2000 when football players tend to use the PMSL abbreviation whenever they are in a textual conversation on digital European soccer fan sites. They are commonly using PMSL when talking about funny scenarios that happened in their football match, or when they are discussing the embarrassment of the other team after its defeat. Although started in the British football community and forums, the PMSL abbreviation become more famous and has been circulating the online platform since its foundation. Many internet users are using the PMSL abbreviation whenever they are engaging in funny conversations and forums.
Do People use PMSL for face-to-face Communication?
No, people do not use PMSL for face-to-face communication. Face-to-face communication is one of the most common types of communication in which two or more people interact while seeing each other. In face-to-face communication, people are most commonly seen exchanging information through the use of their mouths and voice, which is known as communicating verbally. PMSL is an abbreviation, and thus it is being read and pronounced letter-by-letter and not as a whole word. Expressing oneself using an abbreviation is very hard and inconvenient, and it is not understandable as well. Thus, people do not use PMSL as an act of expression in face-to-face communication. Instead, they use the acronym “LOL”, “LUL”, and “LOLZ” as these are more convenient to say and are highly understandable. PMSL is more effective in textual communication and must remain on that platform.
Is PMSL only for textual communication?
Yes, the PMSL abbreviation is only for textual communication. Textual communication is an act of sharing ideas or thoughts through the use of text. The text is typed on a keyboard which is very common on digital and social media platforms, or writing which is more prominent in traditional letters enclosed in envelopes. PMSL abbreviation provides a faster yet more effective way of expressing a burst of laughter, and thus it is highly suitable for textual communication, especially when someone wants to shorten their text, or they don’t want to spend additional time typing or writing how they feel. People rather type or write a 4-letter abbreviation to indicate their intense laughter because it is more convenient and efficient. However, over usage of the PMSL abbreviation is not good as there are still a lot of people who do not know its meaning, and in some contexts, PMSL appears sarcastic and insulting.
What do Scott Molski and Silvio Lacetti thin about PMSL and Internet Slang?
Scott Molski and Silvio Lacetti have a controversial point of view regarding the usage and the popularity of internet slang including the PMSL abbreviation in the present era. According to their essay entitled
The Lost Art of Writing
, the unemployment rate is elevated for the students who use these kinds of internet slang. Inside the field of professionals, such usage of internet slang are prohibited as it lacks formality. Furthermore, Scott Molski and Silvio Lacetti stated that the company’s head and boss thus do not tolerate written reports that lack proper punctuation and grammar, has a lot of spelling mistakes, various made-up words, and silly acronyms. The linguist experts are trying to say that usage of internet slang affects the student’s ability to construct proper sentences.
What does Linguist John McWhorter think about PMSL?
Linguist John McWhorter thinks about internet slang that expresses laughter as “a marker of both empathy and accommodation.” According to John McWhorter, internet slang such as the PMSL abbreviation is used to lessen the tension or awkwardness felt by both ends during a conversation or forum. The linguist expert added that internet slang including PMSL is not usually used to respond to something funny but rather to lighten up the atmosphere and mood when communicating with someone.
Is PMSL a Pragmatic Particle?
Yes, PMSL is a pragmatic particle is a set of words or expressions used to lessen the tension or awkwardness in a particular conversation. These are words that convey different kinds of meaning such as “uh” to indicate that someone is thinking about something. In the case of PMSL, it is used to describe or to show that someone has a burst of laughter which is very effective in breaking awkward moments.
When did Oxford English Dictionary accepted the PMSL Abbreviation?
The PMSL abbreviation is still not accepted in any Oxford English Dictionary. Unlike other famous English slang such as the LOL acronym and LMAO abbreviation, the popularity and number of users of the PMSL abbreviation are still not that prominent. Thus, linguist experts and dictionary authors are still not paying attention to it. In addition, the PMSL abbreviation is more commonly used in the context of British conversations and forums, and in general, a lot of people still do not use it compared to other famous internet slang. The abbreviation must become popularized first and highly utilized in order for it to be added to the Oxford Dictionary because the more it is seen on the digital platform, the more people inquire about its meaning.
Is the oldest use of PMSL in Usenet from 1980s?
No, the oldest use of the PMSL abbreviation is in the British football forums and fan sites in 2000. The PMSL abbreviation is one of the newest internet slang that emerged during the beginning of the 21st century. Its creation is inspired by its predecessors such as “LOL” and “LMAO.” The internet slang that has been first used on Usenet in the 1980s is the LOL acronym and not the PMSL abbreviation.
What are the Variants of PMSL?
The PMSL abbreviation is an internet slang that has a lot of variants. These variants are created to express a different manner of laughing such as laughing with sarcasm, discomfort, and exaggeration. There are several changes taking place on the internet as the modern era of technology takes place, particularly in terms of language, for instance, internet slang such as PMSL
Listed below are the variants of PMSL.
LULZ:
LULZ is an acronym with many distinct meanings and interpretations depending on a country and context. The
LULZ
is interpreted as a variant of PMSL or a plural form of LULZ which stands for “Lame Uncomfortable Laugh”. Nevertheless, LULZ and PMSL are used to indicate one’s laughter in digital and textual conversations or discussions.
LUL:
LUL has multiple meanings in various countries and languages. The
LUL
acronym is commonly associated with the meaning, “Lame Uncomfortable Laugh” which refers to a response to a joke or content that is not funny or does not provide satisfaction. Meanwhile, “LUL” is interpreted as “Love You Lots” as well in other countries which is often sent by lovers and friends to express their affection. However, LUL is more dominant in hilarious and funny content and is used interchangeably with PMSL and LOL.
LOLOLOL:
LOLOLOL is a more exaggerated way of expressing laughter. The LOLOLOL is a lengthy version of LOL which is utilized by people on the internet whenever they are overwhelmed by an amusing topic or discussion. PMSL and LOLOLOL are on par in terms of the intensity of laughter they indicate.
LOLZ:
LOLZ is the plural version of the acronym LOL. The
LOLZ
’s meaning is a lot of laughter. LOLZ is used when there is a more entertaining and funny topic being talked about that cannot be expressed with just a simple LOL.
What are the Derivations of PMSL?
The PMSL abbreviation is created based on popularized internet slang. In the digital platform, people are always doing something to properly express themselves such as making new acronyms and abbreviations. Netizens often use these not just for convenience but for a shortened yet efficient way of expression. The PMSL abbreviation was created based on popularized internet slang. In the digital platform, people are always doing something to properly express themselves, such as making new acronyms and abbreviations. Netizens often use these not just for convenience but for a shortened yet efficient way of expression as well.
Listed below are the derivations of PMSL.
LOL
:
LOL or “Laughing out Loud” is famous and is among the earliest predecessors of internet slang utilised by individuals interacting on the internet, especially on social media platforms. The LOL expression has been widely used ever since it was first presented and conceptualized in the late 1980s until now. The convenience and the effectiveness of LOL in declaring a burst of laughter within face-to-face or textual communication are what make it very famous.
Lolwut:
Lolwut refers to the equal mixture of a laughing and bewildered expression. There is diverse content that is found on the digital platform which is funny but is not efficiently understandable. Hence, leads the netizens to normally use lolwut to depict an expression of the two feelings
Lawl:
Lawl is a derivation of PSML and a more concise form of lawls and lawlz. It is a similar word to LOL which is “Laugh Out Loud”, in circumstances when LOL is read as an acronym. Lawl is sometimes used as an indication of sarcasm or a more playful response to a conversation.
LEL:
PSML is derived from LEL which is a playful or ironic version of the LEL which is a playful or ironic version of the typical internet slang LOL or lol. LEL is just another stylized and innovative form of the standard LOL. Although they have different spelling, they still have the same meaning in almost all contexts.
What are the related terms to PMSL?
Most of the newer terms are taken from older forms of internet slang and jargon, such as the PMSL. People in the digital world are more likely to be involved in innovative and imaginative approaches that allow them to introduce something unique, like a new way of conveying a burst of laughter. These words are connected despite their different spellings because they all serve the same function.
Listed below are the related terms to PMLS.
LMAO:
“Laughing My Ass Off” often known simply as “LMAO” is an acronym that describes the act of laughing very hard.
LMAO
is a stronger form of LOL expression but inferior to PMSL. PMSL and LMAO are related to each other due to their objective which is to indicate laughter in digital discussions.
ROFL:
The acronym and internet slang ROFL refers to “Rolling On The Floor Laughing.” In the year 1989, the term was introduced on the digital platform. The
ROFL
and LMAO terms are similar since their primary function is to express an extreme and strong manner of laughing.
Roflcopter:
ROFLcopter is a term that was introduced on the internet and serves as a superlative of the acronym ROFL “rolling on the floor laughing”
ROFLcopter
, much like the slang phrase “Lollerskates” was the inspiration behind the creation of a GIF clip depicti

[...truncated...]
