What is a Linking Verb? Linking Verb Types and Examples - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
Linking verbs are known as connecting verbs. Linking verbs demonstrate a connection between the subject and the entire sentence. They do not describe any action taken by the subject. Permanent linking verbs, sensor linking verbs, and conditional linking verbs are three types of linking verbs. Permanent linking verbs are often referred to as “true” linking verbs. Permanent linking verbs are called “permanent” or “true” because these linking verbs are always linking verbs. Sensory linking verbs are linking verbs that connect or clarify the subject by using words that imply relating to sensation or the physical senses. Conditional linking verbs are used in forming conditional sentences.
Knowing and understanding the correct uses of linking verbs creates a clear message when writing. It is crucial to use grammatically correct terms and words in content writing. Content writers must know when and how to use linking verbs and other parts of speech to write a quality article. Content writers must study each word and its uses to avoid making mistakes. Linking verbs are parts of speech that complete a sentence. People use these words every day to communicate, and knowing their proper uses matters.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What is a Linking Verb
1.1.
What does a linking verb do?
1.1.1.
What is a linking verb in a sentence?
1.1.1.1.
How to recognize a linking verb in a sentence?
2.
How to use linking verbs?
2.1.
When to not use a linking verb?
2.2.
What are the common mistakes while using linking verbs?
3.
What are the most common linking verbs
3.1.
What are the types of Linking Verbs?
3.1.1.
1. Permanent Linking Verbs
3.1.1.1.
Permanent Linking Verb Sentence Examples
3.1.2.
2. Sensory Linking Verbs
3.1.2.1.
Sensory Linking Verb Sentence Examples
3.1.3.
3. Conditional Linking Verbs
3.1.3.1.
Conditional Linking Verb Sentence Examples
4.
What are the frequently asked linking verb questions?
4.1.
Is “of “A Linking Verb
4.2.
Is “Been” a Linking Verb
4.3.
Is “Be” a Linking Verb
4.4.
Is “Can” a Linking Verb
4.5.
Is “from” A Linking Verb
4.6.
Is “Were” a Linking Verb
4.7.
Is “Might” a Linking Verb
4.8.
Is “at” A Linking Verb
4.9.
Is “Look” a Linking Verb
4.10.
Is “After” a Linking Verb
4.11.
Is “and” A Linking Verb
4.12.
Is “for” A Linking Verb
4.13.
Is “with” A Linking Verb
4.14.
Is “Have” a Linking Verb
4.15.
Is “Am” a Linking Verb
4.16.
Is “Appears” a Linking Ver
4.17.
Is “Should” a Linking Verb
4.18.
Is “so” A Linking Verb
4.19.
Is “Are” a Linking Verb
4.20.
Is “by” A Linking Verb
4.21.
Is “Will” a Linking Verb
4.22.
Is “My” a Linking Verb
4.23.
Is “Went” a Linking Verb
4.24.
Is “Could” a Linking Verb
4.25.
Is “See” a Linking Verb
5.
How to use Linking Verbs in a proper English Tense?
5.1.
How does Content Writing use Linking Verbs?
5.1.1.
How does Google recognize Linking Verbs?
5.1.2.
How do SEOs should know about linking verbs?
6.
What is the difference between Linking Verbs and Helping Verbs?
What is a Linking Verb
A linking verb is a type of verb that indicates no action by itself. Linking verbs show a connection between the subject and the entire sentence. Linking verbs are noted as connecting verbs. Linking verbs do not describe any action taken by the subject. They are verbs that describe the subject instead of the action, as other verbs do.
What does a linking verb do?
Linking verbs utilize subject complements. Linking verbs give features about a subject in a sentence. Subject complements are either adjectives or nouns. A linking verb relates the sentence’s subject to a word that describes the subject, such as a circumstance. The linking verb only connects the topic with the rest of the phrase, without demonstrating any action.
What is a linking verb in a sentence?
A linking verb connects the subject to a subject complement in a sentence, which is why sometimes linking verbs are called connecting verbs. A linking verb is a verb that establishes an identity between the subject and complements or serves as a connecting link between the two. For example, the sentence “The ball is red.” uses the linking verb “is” to link the subject “ball” with the adjective “red,” which provides information about the subject.
How to recognize a linking verb in a sentence?
The writer must start by switching the suspected verb to “is” or “are” to recognize a linking verb in a sentence. The verb is indeed linking if the sentence still makes sense after changing it. “Is” and “are” are not only valuable stand-ins for other verbs, but serve as linking verbs. Another method is to insert an equal sign, “=,” in place of a suspected verb. Linking verbs serve the same purpose as an equal sign because linking verbs establish the relationship between the subject of a sentence and a specific state. For example, “Andrew looks sick.” Replacing the verb “looks” with an equal sign, “Andrew = sick.” Since the sentence has the same meaning, “looks” is a linking verb. The last key is determining if the verb describes an action or state of being. A linking verb is likely to describe the subject’s current state, but it’s probably not if the verb specifies an action.
How to use linking verbs?
Listed below is the instruction on how to use linking verbs.
Linking verbs work as intransitive verbs:
Linking verbs are used instead to work as intransitive verbs, which don’t take direct objects. Direct objects do not take by linking verbs. A verb is not a linking verb when there is a direct object in a clause or sentence.
Linking verbs never refer to actions:
Actions are never mentioned in linking verbs. Linking verbs never refer to actions, implying that linking verbs are never action verbs. Not all stative verbs are linking verbs even though all stative verbs are linking verbs.
Linking verbs are stative verbs:
Using linking verbs in continuous verb tenses is less likely to happen because linking verbs are stative verbs. For instance, “The game seems like a lot of fun!” is more common than “The game looks like a lot of fun!”
Linking verbs can be irregular verbs:
The verbs “be” and “become” are two examples of irregular verbs. Use the proper conjugation to use these verbs in sentences.
Linking verbs must follow the subject-verb agreement:
A singular linking verb is used with a singular subject, whereas a plural linking verb is used with a plural subject.
Be mindful when combining adverbs with linking verbs:
Use an adjective after a linking verb to describe the subject. Using an adverb in a statement affects the meaning because linking verbs do not refer to actions. The phrases “The boy seemed weak to me” and “The boy looked weakly to me.” have two distinct meanings. Place the adverb before the linking verb in employing an adverb with a linking verb. For instance, “Kris seemed angry,” or “The caterpillar slowly became a gorgeous butterfly.”
When to not use a linking verb?
Linking verbs are not used with an adverb. Alternatively, an adjective is used after linking verbs. Always remember the rule, with an action verb, use an adverb. Use an adjective with a linking verb. Overusing linking verbs is not necessary, especially when writing. One way of increasing the strength of one’s writing is by avoiding the immoderate use of linking verbs, which are verbs that detail a state of being. Some options to replace linking verbs are combining two sentences with the same subject and moving the predicate to the adjective.
What are the common mistakes while using linking verbs?
Listed below are the common mistakes while using linking verbs.
Using linking verbs to describe an action:
Using linking verbs to describe an action is another common mistake. A subject is connected to the words that describe it by a linking verb. Linking verbs do not explain actions, unlike action verbs. A linking verb denotes a state of being.
Using the linking verb to describe the subject:
Using the linking verb to describe the subject is another common mistake. An adjective after a linking verb is used to describe the subject.
Subject-verb agreement:
Subject-verb agreement is one common mistake while using linking verbs. A singular linking verb is used with a particular subject, whereas a plural linking verb is used with a plural subject.
Irregular verbs and Conjugation errors:
Irregular verbs and conjugation errors are other common mistakes while using linking verbs. Linking verbs are irregular verbs. The verbs “be” and “become” are two examples of irregular verbs. Using these verbs in sentences, always remember to use the proper conjugation.
Using an adverb after a linking verb:
Using an adverb after a linking verb is another mistake. Using an adverb in a statement could affect the meaning because linking verbs do not refer to actions. Place the adverb before the linking verb in employing an adverb with a linking verb.
What are the most common linking verbs
Listed below are the most common linking verbs.
Is:
“Is” is a verb, customarily linking a singular subject with an adjective. For example, in the sentence “The horse is black.” The linking verb “is” is used to link the characteristic of the subject “horse” being “black.”
Was:
“Was” is a linking verb that links a subject with an adjective or a noun that describes and modifies the subject. For example, in the sentence, “Lucy was sentimental about the gift on her 18th birthday.” “Was” connects the subject “Mary” to the adjective “sentimental.”
Am:
“Am” is a linking verb that links the subject with an adjective or a noun that describes the subject. For example, in the sentence “I am a mother.”  “Am” connects the subject “I” with the noun “mother.”
Are:
“Are” is a linking verb commonly used to link a plural subject with an adjective. For example, in the sentence “The students are noisy.” “Is” is used to link the subject “students” to describe it as  “noisy.”
Were:
“Were” is a linking verb that connects a plural subject with an adjective. For example, in the sentence “The roads were slippery.” The linking verb “were” is used to link the subject “roads” to describe it as “slippery.”
What are the types of Linking Verbs?
Listed below are the types of Linking Verbs.
Permanent Linking Verbs:
Permanent linking verbs are called “permanent” or “true” because these linking verbs are at all times linking verbs. Permanent linking verbs never explain the action. Permanent linking verbs always link the subject to more details, instead.
Sensory Linking Verbs:
Sensory linking verbs are linking verbs that connect or clarify the subject by using words that imply physical senses. Adjectives are used with sensory linking verbs rather than adverbs.
Conditional Linking Verbs:
Conditional linking verbs are used in forming conditional sentences. Conditional linking verbs are observed in sentences that express hypothetical or improbable circumstances.
1. Permanent Linking Verbs
Permanent linking verbs are called “permanent” or true” because these linking verbs are always linking verbs. Permanent linking verbs never explain the action. Permanent linking verbs always link the subject to more details instead. The most popular type of “to be,” “to become,” and “to seem” are permanent linking verbs.
Permanent Linking Verb Sentence Examples
She wants to
be
an astronaut someday:
The sentence used the permanent linking verb “be.” “Be” is used to connect the subject to more details.
You need to
become
more aggressive:
The sentence uses the “become” permanent linking verb. “Become” is the linking verb in the sentence because the verb is employed to start to be something. “Become” is a linking verb followed by an adjective or a noun complement.
Oliver didn’t
seem
affected by her hurtful words:
The permanent linking verb “seem” is used to link the subject and does not explain the action.
They
seem
to know many people:
“Seem” is used in the sentence as a permanent linking verb. “Seem” is the linking verb in the sentence because the verb is used to denote a state of being or appearing in a particular way.
According to the invitation, the wedding will
be
held in their backyard:
The sentence used the “be” permanent linking verb. “Be” is used to connect the subject to more details.
2. Sensory Linking Verbs
Sensory linking verbs are linking verbs that connect or clarify the subject by using words that imply relating to sensation or the physical senses. Sensory linking verbs like appear, look, feel, smell, sound, or taste function as linking verbs when describing a subject. Adjectives are used with sensory linking verbs in English rather than adverbs.
Sensory Linking Verb Sentence Examples
I miss the
sound
of my mother’s voice:
The sensory linking verb in the sentence is the word “sound,” which connects the subject “voice.”
I love the
smell
of freshly baked cookies:
The sensory linking verb in the sentence is the word “smell.” It connects the subject “cookies” to the adjective “freshly,” which gives the subject a character.
She forgot to
taste
the soup:
“Taste” is the sensory linking verb in the sentence. It is used to identify the subject “soup.”
The dress made her
look
older:
The sentence used the “look” as a linking verb. “Look” is a sensory linking verb because the word is modified by the adjective “older.”
The sun begins to
appear
today:
The sentence uses “appear” as a linking verb. “Appear” is a sensory linking verb because it is used to identify the subject “sun.”
3. Conditional Linking Verbs
Conditional linking verbs are used in forming conditional sentences. Conditional linking verbs are observed in sentences that express hypothetical or improbable circumstances. Conditional sentences describe potential outcomes based on whether a precondition is satisfied. The word “if” is frequently used with one of the conditional linking verbs to indicate such a condition in conditional phrases.
Conditional Linking Verb Sentence Examples
I
would
travel to Europe if I had enough money:
The sentence used the linking verb “would tra

[...truncated...]