413 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The 413 HTTP Status Code indicates that the request was too large for the server to handle, either because of physical constraints or because of settings. This usually happens when a file is sent via the POST method from a form and the file size exceeds the maximum size allowed in the server settings. The difference between the 413 HTTP Status Code and the 400 HTTP Status Codes is that the 400 HTTP Status Codes could not understand the request due to invalid syntax, whereas the 413 HTTP Status Code indicates that the request entity exceeds the server’s limit; the server may close the connection or return a Retry-After header field.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does 413 HTTP Status Code Mean?
1.1.
How to Use 413 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
2.
How to Check 413 HTTP Status Code?
2.1.
Which HTTP Method is used with 413 HTTP Status Code?
3.
What are the Related HTTP Response Headers with 413 HTTP Status Code?
4.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of 413 HTTP Status Code?
5.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to the 413 HTTP Status Code?
What does 413 HTTP Status Code Mean?
The 413 HTTP Status Code indicates that the server is refusing to process a request because the request payload is too large for the server to handle. To prevent the client from continuing with the request, the server closed the connection. If the condition is temporary, the server should generate a Retry-After header field to indicate that it is temporary and how long the client will wait before attempting again.
How to Use 413 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
To use the 413 HTTP Status Code in a website, the web servers set upload size limits to prevent users from overloading the server and exceeding storage permissions. Set upload size limits to prevent users from overwhelming the server and exceeding storage permissions. While you can avoid the error by reducing the size of your upload, you can also change your file size limit with some server-side modification.
How to Check 413 HTTP Status Code?
To check the 413 HTTP Status Code use the web browser network tab and developer tools for every resource that the client uses.
Which HTTP Method is used with 413 HTTP Status Code?
There is only one HTTP method used with the 410 HTTP Status Code which is the POST HTTP method. The POST HTTP method is used to define the form and the file size exceeds the maximum size allowed in the server settings. The request payload replaces all existing representations of the target resource with the POST HTTP method.
What are the Related HTTP Response Headers with 413 HTTP Status Code?
There are multiple related HTTP Response Headers with the 413 HTTP Status Code. The following related HTTP Response Headers are listed below.
Connection HTTP Header: The
Connection HTTP Header
determines whether the network connection is kept open after the current transaction is completed.
Retry-After HTTP Header: The
Retry-After HTTP Header
response HTTP header specifies how long the user agent should wait before attempting another request.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of 413 HTTP Status Code?
The 413 HTTP Status Code is compatible with all browsers including Chrome, Edge, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Opera, Safari, and Webview Android.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to the 413 HTTP Status Code?
There are other similar HTTP Status Codes to 413 HTTP Status Code. The following HTTP Status Codes are listed below.
400 Bad Request HTTP Status Codes: Due to incorrect syntax, the server was unable to understand the request. The
400 HTTP Status Codes
are similar to the 413 HTTP Status Code which is also a client error response.
403 Forbidden HTTP Status Code: Because the client lacks access rights to the content and is thus unauthorized, the server refuses to provide the requested resource. Unlike 401 Unauthorized, the server knows who the client is. The
403 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 413 HTTP Status Code which is also a client error response.
405 Method Not Allowed HTTP Status Code: The server is aware of the request method but the target resource does not support it. For instance, an API may not permit the use of DELETE to delete a resource. The
405 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 413 HTTP Status Code which is also a client error response.
409 Conflict HTTP Status Code: The
409 Conflict HTTP Status Code
response is sent when a request is in conflict with the server’s current state. The 409 HTTP Status Code is similar to the 413 HTTP Status Code which is also a client error response.
Author
Recent Posts
Follow SEO
Holistic SEO
SEO Research Department
at
Holistic SEO & Digital
Holistic SEO & Digital has been built by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR. Holistic SEO is the process of developing integrated digital marketing projects with every aspect including Coding, Natural Language Processing, Data Science, Page Speed, Digital Analytics, Content Marketing, Technical SEO, and Branding. Structured, Semantic Search Engine improves its ability to detect the real-world entities, today. Having a simple website is not enough anymore. To show that your brand is authoritative, trustworthy, and expert on its own niche, you need entity-based Search Engine Optimization Projects. Holistic SEO & Digital's main focus is on improving the brand's organic visibility and growth potential.
Follow SEO
Latest posts by Holistic SEO
(
see all
)
48 Online Shopping and Consumer Behavior Statistics, Facts and Trends
- August 22, 2023
B2B Marketing Statistics
- August 22, 2023
38 Podcast Statistics, Facts, and Trends
- August 22, 2023
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
TechSEO
413 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods
by Holistic SEO
time to read: 3 min
TechSEO
410 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
TechSEO
204 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
0
0
0