Best Regards Meaning and Alternatives for Ending an Email - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
“Best Regards” refers to the usual and friendly closing remarks when writing emails or letters. “Best Regards” means that the sender wishes the recipient well, even though the sender does not have a close personal connection with the recipient. Including “Best Regards” in the email or letter is flexible enough to be appropriate when writing a formal or informal letter. It is one method to end the email effectively. Three alternatives to Best Regards when sending an email or letter include “Kind regards”, “Warmest regards”, and “Respectfully” as the more formal closing. Best Regards is a popular phrase because it is another way of showing respect, professionalism, casualness, and decent intentions. Additionally, it makes a good impression when sending an email or letter to clients and workmates. “Best Regards” is commonly used when communicating through email, is used when closing an actual letter, and is sometimes used as an email signature followed by the sender’s or company’s information.
Sincerely is the other alternative for Best Regards, which is considered the formal closing of an email or letter. “Best Regards” is used to end various types of communication, such as letters for individuals whom the sender has previously encountered or worked with. Besides, “Best Regards” is utilized when communicating with the boss or supervisor about a project, with the client with whom the sender has formed a professional relationship, with the individuals with whom the sender previously worked, and with colleagues. “Best Regards” in conclusion is used for reaching out to whom the sender has developed a work-related relationship through email, or when closing a physical letter to show respect and warm wishes towards the recipient.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does “Best Regards” mean?
2.
What are the synonyms of Best Regards?
2.1.
Is “Highest Regards” different from Best Regards?
2.2.
Is “Kindly Regards” different from “Best Regards”?
2.3.
Is “Kind Regards” different from “Best Regards”?
3.
What are the best alternatives to Best Regards?
3.1.
1. Regards
3.2.
2. Thanks in advance
3.3.
3. Respectfully
3.4.
4. Warmest regards
3.5.
5. Best
3.6.
6. Kind regards
3.7.
7. Thank you
3.8.
8. Sincerely
4.
How to Use Best Regards better in Emails?
4.1.
How to Use Best Regards in Letters?
4.2.
How to Use Best Regards in Signature?
5.
When not to say Best Regards in the text?
5.1.
Is it normal to say Best Regards in chat?
5.2.
Does Social Media use Best Regards?
6.
Why is “Best Regards” a popular phrase for emails?
6.1.
How do Content Writers use Best Regards?
6.2.
Is it normal to say Best Regards in Articles?
6.3.
Do News Authors use Best Regards in Journalism?
6.4.
How does the Best Regards phrase affect SEO Content Writing?
7.
What are the Velediction Words in English for Professional Life?
7.1.
What are the other phrases besides “Best Regards” for using in emails?
What does “Best Regards” mean?
Best Regards is an email sign-off that is used to formally close a professional or semiformal email or letter. Many people still utilize “Best Regards” even though it seems to be too formal for an email signature. According to the study of Etymology, “Best Regard” was first used during the mid-14th century originating from the Old French “regard”, which means “to take notice of” or to express respect. Hence, it is used to convey the writer’s perception or deliberation. It is started to be used when the end of the message is near, and the writer will insert warm wishes or greetings to the recipient. “Best Regards” contributes to the transmission of the message to ensure that the recipient received the high respect and best luck that the writer wants to convey. For example, if a professional sender wishes to convey a message to another professional, “Best Regards” is inserted before the writer’s name or information to ensure that professionalism and respect are maintained. Closing an email with proper utilization of phrases is vital to let the recipient know that respect and formality are being maintained even in terms of written communication. There is a possibility that the reader will misinterpret the message if the writer does not construct the content and tone properly.
What are the synonyms of Best Regards?
Other terms for “Best Regards” are “Sincerely”, “Best wishes”, “Kind Regards”, “Respectfully”, “Warmest Regards”, and “All the best.” Sincerely is used as a formal way to email a supervisor, clients, colleagues, and other individuals that the writer has a professional relationship. Formality is the best method for conveying a message with the utmost respect. “Kind regards” is another formal alternative for Best Regards, which still initiates a respectful tone toward the recipient. On the other hand, Respectfully is another formal email sign-off equivalent to Sincerely. Warmest regards is an informal way of ending an email, but still initiates respect and warm wishes with the recipient. Then, “All the best” is used to warmly close an email or letter, but not an excessively warm closing.
Is “Highest Regards” different from Best Regards?
No, Highest Regards is another term for “Best Regards” that indicates excellent respect and admiration for the recipient. Highest Regards is equivalent to Kindest Regards, which is sometimes used for email sign-offs for whom the writer wants to convey a message while maintaining professionalism.
Is “Kindly Regards” different from “Best Regards”?
No, “Kindly Regards” is not quite different from “Best Regards”, but it is not recommended to use it as closing remarks. Using “Kindly” is a bit inappropriate, so “Kind Regards” must be used instead. There is no phrase such as “Kindly Regards.” “Affectionately” is another alternative if the writer wants to use the word “kind.”
Is “Kind Regards” different from “Best Regards”?
No, “Kind Regards” is considered the more formal interpretation of “Best Regards”, which still promotes respect but apprehends less of a developed relationship. It is considered a professional and significant closing email that is usually utilized for email outreach, introductory, or informational emails. Introducing the self to a colleague or an individual is one way to use “Kind Regards”. On top of that, “Kind Regards” is one of the best options if the writer is not sure what phrase to choose or put in the email.
What are the best alternatives to Best Regards?
Listed below are the 4 best alternatives to Best Regards.
Sincerely:
It is one of the best alternatives for Best Regards that is commonly used as a formal way to end a letter. It is a valuable phrase that is used in a business setting and other professional forms of communication. Using the “Sincerely” remark is a professional way to convey a formal message that expresses excessive respect toward the recipient.
Respectfully: “
Respectfully” closing remark is recommended when a writer plans to send an email or letter to the boss, supervisor, or someone that the sender has never met or never knew personally. It is another way to end an email with formality and professionalism, which is close to the “Sincerely” remark.
Best Wishes:
“Best Wishes” is used for informal emails or letters, which indicates that the sender is only hoping that the recipient will encounter good things. “Best Wishes” is usually used by a sender with a well or developed relationship with the recipient. Even though “Best Wishes” sounds informal, it is still considered a polite and semiformal email sign-off that is still used for business communication, and for individuals with a personal relationships.
Kind Regards:
“Kind Regards” is still used both formally and informally as a way of saying farewell or best wishes to the recipient. “Kind Regards” seem too informal, but still shows respect and is not quite different from the phrase “Warm Regards”, which only means warm wishes. On the other hand, “Kind Regards” is used to introduce the self formally.
1. Regards
“Regards” is a closing remark that signifies politeness and friendliness. It is used as an alternative for “Best Regards” to lessen too much formality, since “Regards” is less formal than “Best Regards” and other closing valedictions. However, “Regards” is sometimes used in any business circumstances, but not too professionally, such as communicating with workmates or with someone outside the workplace. Furthermore, “Regards” is considered to be ideal or more professional in emails.
2. Thanks in advance
“Thanks in advance” is another email sign-off used by other writers to sound polite. However, the phrase seems rude to many readers because the writer appears presumptuous that the recipient is expected to do whatever the writer requests. Hence, it is not recommended to use for formal emails or business situations beseems cause it demonstrates that the writer will not likely bother to follow up with a ‘Thank You” after the recipient has obliged. In addition, “Thank you in advance” is appropriately utilized as an alternative for “Best Regards” when communicating with a colleague, requesting follow-ups from stakeholders, or providing information about the recipient’s requests. It is acceptable to use it for people with whom the sender has already developed a work-related relationship.
3. Respectfully
Respectfully is often used when writing a letter to a boss, or supervisor, and for other professional purposes. It is one of the formal alternatives for “Best Regards” that is utilized when communicating with people the sender does not know very well, as it displays professionalism. As a display of formality, “Respectfully” is more professional for emails. It is used to formally relay messages to government officials and other professionals.
4. Warmest regards
It is a personal version of “Best Regards” used to close an email when communicating with friends or family to show appreciation. “Warmest Regards” is a better alternative when “Best Regards” is not suitable for the type of personal letter the sender is drafting. “Warmest Regards” is used for thank you, recommendation, cover, and other informal or semiformal industrial messages.
5. Best
It is the short and informal form of “Best Regards” that is still considered professional when it comes to communicating with people with whom the sender has frequent interactions. “Best” is used as an alternative for “Best Regards” because it cheerfully conveys a message when the sender wishes the recipient to have the best or warm wishes.
6. Kind regards
“Kind Regards” is commonly used as another version of “Best Regards” because it is a bit more professional in expressing respect. It is utilized when introducing the self to someone or messaging supervisors in the company through email. “Kind Regards” is also deemed professional for emails or signatures.
7. Thank you
It is a casual closing valediction that shows gratitude and leaves a lasting effect. Saying “Thank you” is the simplest way of showing appreciation for someone’s efforts. It is used as an alternative for “Best Regards” when the message is supposed to convey a thank-you note, or when someone asks or requests something. Even though “Thank you” seems casual, it is still considered professional manners to maintain a good connection within the workplace and other settings.
8. Sincerely
“Sincerely” is similar to “Respectfully,” which means that it is also considered the most professional closing sign-off alternative to “Best Regards.” From the word “sincere” writing an email using “Sincerely” indicates that the sender wants the recipient to know that the information provided is trustworthy and that the sender is being sincere. Additional terms of “Sincerely” include “Sincerely yours”, “Regards”, “Yours sincerely”, and “Yours truly,” which are known as the most useful and simplest form of email sign-off utilized for professional business situations. “Sincerely” is used aside from “Best Regards” when the writer wants to achieve formality, which concludes that “Sincerely” is more professional for closing emails or signatures.
How to Use Best Regards better in Emails?
Listed below are the 5 steps on how to use Best Regards better in emails.
Input the content of the email, either formal or semiformal:
“Best “Regards” is used as a closing for a formal or semiformal email.
Write “Best Regards” after the message and before the signature:
“Best Regards” must appear before the signature or the writer’s information when communicating through email.
Write the phrase with the capital “B” and “R”:
Using the capital “B” and “R” is the proper way of writing an email or letter, following formality. Professionalism leaves an excellent impression on the recipient.
Add a comma after the valediction:
Another proper way to write “Best Regards” is to put a comma and not any other symbols such as exclamation points. Putting a comma shows professionalism and expresses that the writer indeed respects the recipient. The exclamation points are ideal for casual email sign-offs.
Leave space between the closing and the signature:
The writer must leave one space between the closing and the signature.
Writing an email using “Best Regards” is professional enough to convey a message appropriately and to show respect. However, the writer must also properly construct the format of the phrase. There are many alternatives for “Best Regards” that will make the email sound more professional. The writer must consider utilizing formal alternatives, such as “Sincerely”, “Respectfully”, and “Kind Regards.” to use “Best Regards” in emails more professionally.
How to Use Best Regards in Letters?
Listed below are the 5 steps on how to use Best Regards in letters.
Input the content of the letter.
“Best “Regards” must only be used to convey a formal message when writing a letter. The letter must contain the introduction and the content before applying for the closing. However, different form

[...truncated...]
