Skip to content
The 35 best artificial intelligence (AI) newsletters constitute excellent sources of information that help subscribers with their individual needs. The 35 best artificial intelligence (AI) newsletters cover many topics, including the latest AI developments, SEO, deep learning, machine learning, business enhancement, AI tools, and natural language.
A user gets an AI newsletter through various ways, such as exploring AI communities and platforms, checking university and research institution websites, and following AI firms and organizations. Subscribing to periodicals about artificial intelligence, connecting with others in the AI community, and attending AI conferences and events are other ways to acquire AI newsletters.
The famous AI SEO newsletters that drive traffic are Holistic SEO AI Newsletter, The Moz Top 10, Search Engine Land Newsletter, SEO by the Sea, and Backlinko.
AI-powered newsletters effectively drive website traffic through tailored content delivery, personalized recommendations, dynamic content optimization, A/B testing, behavioral targeting, time optimization, and conversion optimization. AI tailors newsletter content to individual interests by analyzing user details and preferences, increasing engagement, and enticing subscribers to the website for more relevant information.
Personalized suggestions and related content within newsletters encourage subscribers to explore further, boosting traffic. AI optimizes newsletter content based on user engagement and conducts A/B testing to enhance click-through rates. Behavioral targeting segments subscribers and delivers targeted content, increasing the likelihood of website visits. Time optimization ensures newsletters are sent at optimal periods for maximum interaction, while conversion optimization optimizes user flows and CTAs, driving more traffic to specific web pages or actions.
AI-powered newsletters are effective in driving website traffic. AI-powered newsletters effectively drive website traffic by leveraging user preferences, relevance, and timing. They analyze user interactions and use the data to encourage visits to specific websites, resulting in increased traffic.
35 Best Artificial Intelligence (AI) newsletter listed below.
Holistic SEO AI Newsletter
Synthetic Mind
The Batch (DeepLearning.AI)
Death to Human
Daily Zaps
Future Tools
The Peripheral
AI Suite
AI Marketing School
Last Week in AI
Eye on A.I.
ChinAI Newsletter
Machine Learning Monthly
AI Valley
AI Breakfast
Ben’s Bites
The Rundown
Through the Noise
Import AI
AI Weekly
Big Brain
Deep Learning Weekly
The Neuron
SuperHuman
The Algorithm by MIT Technology Review
Inside AI
The Sequence
TLDR AI
Validator AI
Exponential View
Prompt Engineering Daily
Box of Amazing
Not a Bot
The Loz Letters
AI Hustle
Contents of the Article
show
1.
1. Holistic SEO AI Newsletter
2.
3. The Batch (DeepLearning.AI)
3.
4. Death to Human
4.
5. Daily Zaps
5.
6. Future Tools
6.
7. The Peripheral
7.
8. AI Suite
8.
9. AI Marketing School
9.
10. Last Week in AI
10.
11. Eye on A.I.
11.
12. ChinAI Newsletter
12.
13. Machine Learning Monthly
13.
14. AI Valley
14.
15. AI Breakfast
15.
16. Ben’s Bites
16.
17. The Rundown
17.
18. Through the Noise
18.
19. Import AI
19.
20. AI Weekly
20.
21. Big Brain
21.
22. Deep Learning Weekly
22.
23. The Neuron
23.
24. SuperHuman
24.
25. The Algorithm by MIT Technology Review
25.
26. Inside AI
26.
27. The Sequence
27.
28. TLDR AI
28.
29. Validator AI
29.
30. Exponential View
30.
31. Prompt Engineering Daily
31.
32. Box of Amazing
32.
33. Not a Bot
33.
34. The Loz Letters
34.
35. AI Hustle
35.
What Is an AI Newsletter?
35.1.
How Can I Get AI Newsletter?
35.2.
What Are Some Popular AI SEO Newsletters that Drive Website Traffic?
35.3.
How Can AI-Powered Newsletters Be Effective in Driving Traffic to A Website?
35.3.1.
Are AI-Powered Newsletters Effective in Driving Website Traffic?
36.
How to Choose the Best A.I. Newsletter?
36.1.
What AI Newsletter Offers a Daily Newsletter?
36.2.
What AI Newsletter Offers a Weekly Newsletter?
36.3.
What AI Newsletter Offers the Latest Trending Newsletter?
36.4.
What AI Newsletter Offers AI in Deep Learning?
36.5.
What AI Newsletter Offers Only In Specific Locations?
36.5.1.
Is AI Newsletter Give Accurate Information?
37.
What Are the Advantages of AI Newsletters?
37.1.
Who Benefits the Most from AI Newsletter?
37.2.
What Industry Uses AI Newsletter?
37.3.
How Can You Make a Profit out Of Using AI Newsletter?
37.4.
How Can AI Newsletter Help with Networking?
37.5.
How Can an AI Newsletter Help with Increasing Engagement?
37.5.1.
Is There Any Disadvantage to Using AI Newsletter?
37.5.1.1.
What Is the Difference Between A.I. Newsletter and Machine Learning?
1. Holistic SEO AI Newsletter
Holistic SEO AI Newsletter is a platform that provides a comprehensive guide to leveraging the capabilities of artificial intelligence (AI) in search engine optimization (SEO). Holistic SEO AI newsletter delivers the newest insights, strategies, and cutting-edge tools that harness AI to improve one’s SEO efforts and drive organic growth. The primary focus of the Holistic SEO AI Newsletter is content optimization to enhance relevance and engagement. The website of the Holistic SEO AI newsletter is seonewsletter.diigital.
Holistic SEO AI Newsletter is a free newsletter subscription. The pros of the
2. Synthetic Mind
Synthetic Mind is an AI newsletter focusing on the general applications, happenings, tools, and benefits it provides users. Synthetic Mind delivers weekly newsletters about the latest happenings, guiding users to get brighter on artificial intelligence. The website of Synthetic Mind is syntheticmind.io.
Synthetic Mind is a free email newsletter, so users must expect no monthly or annual subscription fees. The pros of Synthetic Mind are staying informed with the latest AI developments, receiving diverse content, and a collection of thought-provoking articles. The cons are its general approach, which means there is a lack of depth in some topics.
3. The Batch (DeepLearning.AI)
The Batch is an artificial intelligence email newsletter brought to users by deeplearning.ai. The Batch provides an ultimate gateway to the captivating world of artificial intelligence (AI). It brings users the newest weekly updates, insightful articles, and exciting developments from the forefront of AI research, applications, and industry trends. It promises users to provide world-class education in expanding their technical knowledge, deliver hands-on training to obtain practical abilities and learn from a collaborative community. The website of The Batch is deeplearning.ai/the-batch/.
The Batch is a free AI newsletter, meaning no fees are charged monthly or yearly. The pros of
The Batch
are the wide coverage regarding AI updates and its free subscription. The con is the lack of focus on a particular field that delivers more in-depth information to subscribers.
4. Death to Human
Death to Human is an artificial intelligence newsletter driven to provide information regarding the cause of AI and crafting a brighter future for humanity. The usual articles and newsletters delivered by Death to Human are AI waifus, OpenAI monetization, The takeover of the supply chain, and the Creative industries. The website of Death to Humans is deathtohumans.com.
Death to Human offers a free AI newsletter subscription. The pros of Death to Humans are the timely and important updates and the no-fee access. One of the cons is its reliance on flashy headlines to generate clicks and interest.
5. Daily Zaps
Daily Zaps is an AI newsletter that delivers brief yet meaningful content crafted to keep users knowledgeable on the newest AI tech and news in three minutes daily. Daily Zaps give trustworthy and convenient data sources for users desiring to keep up in the loop regarding the ever-evolving field of AI. The website of Daily Zaps is dailyzaps.com. Daily Zaps provides a free subscription to its newsletter services. The pros of Daily Zaps are brief and informative content, every update, and a three-minute read, which saves a lot of time.
6. Future Tools
Future Tools is a platform that collects and sorts all helpful artificial intelligence tools made available for public use. Future Tools users can select and organize their favorite based on their preferred order. The platform offers additional updates related to AI news generated by artificial intelligence. The website of Future Tools is futuretools.io.
Future Tools is a free artificial newsletter source. The pros of Future Tools are the guides and recommendations to valuable and practical AI tools paired with AI news updates. The cons are the issue regarding the clarity of selecting a specific product category and the lack of faster updates.
7. The Peripheral
The Peripheral is an AI newsletter that updates users weekly, scheduled every Sunday. The Peripheral is a collaboration of web3, No-Code, and AI tools. It is crafted for content creators to learn how to utilize current and future artificial intelligence tools to gain profit. The website of The Peripheral is theperipheral.beehiiv.com.
The Peripheral is a paid AI newsletter platform. It charges around $10 per month and $100 per annum. The pros of The Peripheral are the practical applications of learning to generate wealth. The con is its paid subscription, a noteworthy factor for some users, considering that many AI newsletter outlets provide insightful content for free.
8. AI Suite
AI Suite is a newsletter source that delivers a breakdown of AI-related information. AI Suite is dedicated to keeping its users knowledgeable about AI tools, tutorials, podcasts, and documentaries. Deiniol Berridge crafts it. The website of AI Suite is aisuite.io. AI Suite is a free AI newsletter resource. The pros of the AI suite are the multiple forms of information sources, making users utilize their preferred learning mode.
9. AI Marketing School
AI Marketing School is an AI information source considered an excellent training and consulting platform. AI Marketing School aids B2B marketers and marketing groups in utilizing the full potential of artificial intelligence to transform their strategic marketing moves and operations. AI Marketing School aims to assist marketers in making their organizations bigger with artificial intelligence, promoting a future-adaptive career, and maintaining an edge in the AI marketing revolution. The website of AI Marketing School is aimarketingschool.beehiiv.com.
AI Marketing School’s newsletter component is free to access and subscribe to. The pros of AI Marketing School are the use of their information in the business field. The cons are the narrower scope, which focuses on business and marketing.
10. Last Week in AI
Last Week in AI is an artificial intelligence newsletter that delivers recaps of AI news directly to the user’s inbox. It promises to supply a brief but highly informative digest of AI news every week. Graduate students from different universities are currently running it. The website of Last Week in AI is lastweekin.ai.
The Last Week in AI is a paid newsletter service. The monthly subscription to Last Week in AI is $5, while the annual subscription is $50. The pros of Last Week in AI are straight-to-inbox updates and the cheaper subscription. The cons of
Last Week in AI
is its non-specific niche or coverage of topics.
11. Eye on A.I.
Eye on A.I. is an artificial intelligence newsletter that analyzes how algorithms, deep learning, and natural language processing are rapidly altering the business landscape. It explores the chances and struggles induced by the rapid development of artificial intelligence and tools such as Dall:E, Bard, and ChatGPT. It is an excellent platform for industry experts and the finance community seeking AI-specific updates. The website of Eye on A.I. is eye-on.ai.
Eye on A.I. is a paid newsletter platform. One of the pros of the newsletter is the access to information that makes users comprehend how the system of artificial intelligence works. The cons of
Eye on A.I.
is the complex registration for subscriptions in which more details must be compared to other newsletter providers.
12. ChinAI Newsletter
ChinAI Newsletter is a newsletter that is based on information on China. It is a platform that produces topics about China’s grand strategy for advanced technology, such as artificial intelligence, the attributes of influential Chinese actors like companies and individual thinkers, and the ethical implications of AI development. The website of ChinAI is chinai.substack.com.
The newsletter is paid, and the subscription is charged at around $9 per month and $50 every year. One of the pros of
ChinAI Newsletter
is its realistic and practical vision. The cons are the one-country scope and the paid subscription, which are costly for some users.
13. Machine Learning Monthly
Machine Learning Monthly is a newsletter platform made by Daniel Bourke. Machine Learning Monthly enables readers to maintain updates with the machine learning industry. It is utilized by people who need help making progress using free tutorials and learning the most recent and highly-required skills.
The website of Machine Learning Monthly is zeromastery.io. It is a paid newsletter service with approximately $39 per month and $279 per year fees. The pros of
Machine Learning Monthly
are its unlimited access to all courses, workshops, and career paths, while one of the cons is its pricey subscription.
14. AI Valley
AI Valley is an online platform that delivers the most recent details about artificial intelligence, machine learning, and natural language processing. It is known for new AI tools, helpful prompts, and news about the latest AI enhancements. The website of AI Valley is theaivalley.com.
AI Valley is a free AI newsletter and is accessible to everyone. The pros of
AI Valley
are its usefulness in gaining knowledge about AI tool updates and its excellence for AI Twitter creators.
15. AI Breakf

[...truncated...]