Quan Nguyen Texas Realtor
QUAN NGUYEN
BUY A HOME
QUAN
NGUYEN
BUY A HOME
When you use Services (including our website and mobile apps) on this website and any subdomains of this website (collectively, the “Website”) to find, buy, rent, or sell real estate or connect with mortgage lenders or other real estate professionals, you are providing us with your data. This policy explains what information we collect, how we use it, and who we share it with, along with the rights and choices you may have with respect to your information. This policy applies to any of our websites or apps that link to this Privacy Policy.
Terms of Service
This Privacy Policy is governed by the
Terms of Service
, which includes all disclaimers of warranties and limitations of liabilities. All terms not defined separately in this Privacy Policy shall maintain the definition given to them in the Terms of Service.
To review other applicable terms and conditions that apply to this Privacy Policy, including, without limitation, intellectual property rights, representations and warranties, disclaimer of warranties, limitation of liability and resolving disputes, please review the Terms of Service.
Information Collected
When you use our Services, we collect a variety of information from and about you and your device(s). Some of this information identifies you directly (such as your name or email address), while some of it is associated with you through your account, profile, or device (like the homes you choose to save or your location data).
When you use aspects of our Services (such as creating an account), we may ask you for information about yourself, such as your name, email address, and phone number. If you use any mortgage tools included on our websites or apps, we might ask you for more sensitive information, such as your income and credit score. Additionally, if you voluntarily contribute any information, such as agent reviews or any comments you provide on a “request information” form, we’ll store that data as well. The sections below more fully describe what information we collect in connection with your use of our different Services.
You may also provide information about other people through our Services. For example, if you share a home listing with someone, we may collect that person’s email address as part of your account information.
Information You Provide
Home Search: We may provide several tools to help you find a home to buy or rent. If you provide any search criteria when using our home search tools, such as the type of home or number of bedrooms, we save that information so that we can tailor your search results to what you’re looking for.
We also help you connect with local real estate agents, property managers, mortgage loan officers, and other real estate professionals. If you choose to contact one of these individuals through our platform, we may ask for your name, email address, and phone number so that we can reach you and connect you with the right person.
Information We Collect Automatically
In addition to the information you give us directly, we collect certain information automatically as you use our services.
Activity Information: We collect information about how you use our websites and mobile apps, such as your home search history, homes you view, what you’ve clicked on and other uses of our features, and the amount of time you spend looking at different parts of our websites.
Device Information: We collect data about the browsers and devices you use to access our websites and apps. The data we collect includes browser or device model and settings, operating system, unique identifiers (including device ID), and the version of the app you’re using.
We also collect data about how your browsers and devices interact with our services, including IP address, crash reports, system activity, and the date and time. You can control our collection of certain data, such as your mobile device model or the language your mobile device uses, by adjusting the privacy and security settings on your mobile device.
Location Information: If you enable location services on your mobile device, we may collect the location of your device. We use your location to provide you with location-based information, like homes and real estate professionals in your area, and to offer location-based services. If you don’t want to use these features, you can turn off location services on your device.
We also collect location information for similar purposes from your browser. You can disable browser location services through your browser settings.
Cookies and Other Tracking Tech: We may use various tools (including cookies, pixel tags, web beacons and other similar technologies) to gather information about how you view and use our sites and apps and to enhance your experience with our services. For example, many of our web pages use cookies to help us understand site usage, improve the content and offerings on our websites and apps, or personalize your experience. The use of cookies helps us serve you better by understanding what you’re interested in, tracking trends, saving your preferences, and storing information you may want to retrieve on a regular basis, such as your favorite homes. We also allow specific, approved partners to collect data from your browser or device for advertising and measurement purposes using their own cookies or similar tools. For further information about how we use cookies, please access our
Cookie Policy
.
Ads: We use the remarketing services to advertise on third party websites (including Google, Facebook, and others) to previous visitors to our website. It could mean that we advertise to previous visitors who haven’t completed a task on our website (such as using the contact form to make an inquiry). This could be in the form of an advertisement on the Google search results page, or a site in the Google Display Network. Third-party vendors, including Google, use cookies to serve ads based on someone’s past visits to a website. Any data collected will be used in accordance with this privacy policy and the third-party vendor’s privacy policy. You can set preferences for how Google, Facebook, and others advertise to you using their corresponding ad preferences settings, and if you want to, you can opt out of interest-based advertising entirely by cookie settings or permanently using a browser plugin.
Permitted Use of Personal Information
This Website uses your Personal Information to provide you products and services, such as to fulfil your requests for products or to help us personalize our offerings to you. We also use your Personal Information to support our business functions, such as fraud prevention, marketing, and legal functions. To do this, we combine personal and non-Personal Information, collected online and offline, including information from third-party sources. Personal and non-Personal Information will be used to:
Fulfil Requests: To fulfil your requests for products and services and communicate with you about those requests.
Understand Customer Behavior: To better understand customer behavior so that we may improve our marketing and advertising efforts and to improve the distribution of our products and services.
Protection: To protect the security and integrity of our websites, mobile services, and our business.
Legal: To comply with legal and/or regulatory requirements.
Promotional Messaging or Advertising: With your consent, this Website uses your contact information to recommend products and services that might be of interest to you, to send you marketing and advertising messages such as newsletters, announcements, or special offers or to notify you about our upcoming events. If at any time, you would like to discontinue receiving any such email updates, you may unsubscribe by following the unsubscribe instructions included in each promotional email.
Providing & Improving Our Services: We use your information to provide our Services to you, such as returning search results as you browse for homes, and to improve our Services and develop new ones. For example, we track how you use our websites and apps and use that information to troubleshoot issues and adjust things to improve your experience. We use the contact information you provide us, like your phone number and email address, to communicate with you about our services. For example, if you contact us regarding a problem with our site or your account, we may email you to help identify and solve the problem. We may also inform you about our Services, offers, promotions, news, and other updates we think may be of interest to you.
Connecting You with Real Estate Professionals: If you ask us to, we also use your information to connect you to real estate professionals, like when you want to contact an agent to discuss a home you find on our platform. We may also contact you before passing your information to the real estate professional, to ensure you are connected with the professional best suited to help you.
Personalizing Your Experience: We use the information we collect about you and your activity on our services to personalize the services we offer and show advertising, content, or features that we think you might like. For example, we may use your activity information to provide customized search results that match your preferences and prior search criteria.
Other Uses: We also use your data to detect, investigate, and prevent fraudulent transactions and other illegal activities, to enforce our Terms of Service and other agreements with you, and to protect the rights and property of Homes, its customers, and others.
Sharing Your Information
Mobile Information:
We do not share or sell mobile phone numbers, SMS opt-in data, or text messaging originator consent with third parties or affiliates for marketing or promotional purposes. Mobile information may be shared only with service providers that assist in delivering our services. Text messaging originator opt-in data and consent will not be shared with any third parties.
Information You Ask Us to Share:
We share information when you ask us to share it. For example, if you choose to contact a real estate agent, mortgage lender, property manager, or other real estate professional through our platform, we will send them the information you provide on the “request info” or other inquiry form.
Service Providers & Business Partners:
When we hire service providers to help operate our business, we may need to give them access to information to provide their service. We allow them to use the information only to perform the service we have asked them to perform. When we partner with other businesses to offer products and services to you, we may share information with those partners only as needed to provide those products and services.
Legal & Compliance Transfers:
When we need to share data to satisfy a legal or regulatory requirement, including responding to a subpoena or other lawful government request for data, we will share information only as necessary to comply with that requirement. We’ll endeavor to tell you before sharing your information in these situations, unless we’re prohibited from doing so. We may also share information if needed to enforce our legal rights, detect or prevent fraud or security concerns, or protect public safety.
If this Website is involved in a merger, divestiture, restructuring, reorganization, dissolution, or other sale or transfer of some or all of its assets, personal information held by us about our services users may be among the assets transferred. In addition, we may disclose personal information for the purpose of evaluating and/or performing the proposed transaction (including in connection with any bankruptcy, liquidation or similar proceedings).
Public and De-Identified Data:
We may disclose or share any publicly available information or aggregated and/or de-identified information without restriction.
AI Tools:
We use both internal and externally hosted software, platforms, and applications that utilize data analysis, learning, reasoning, problem solving, perception, prediction, planning or other cognitive functions in an attempt to augment or replicate human intelligence (we refer to these, collectively, as “AI Tools”). Examples of techniques employed by AI Tools include machine learning, deep learning, computer vision, natural language processing, robotics, virtual agents, chatbots, and other emerging technologies that aim to simulate human intelligence. AI Tools with which we share your personal data can be found in the list of sub-processors listed below. We may also share information that does not identify you when we use such AI Tools.
List of Sub-Processors
As of the date of this agreement, we engage the following sub-processors that may process Personal Data:
Sub-processor (Entity Name)Service Provider's LocationProvided ServiceAmazon Web Services (AWS)USAInfrastructure as a Service and Platform as a ServiceGoogle Cloud Platform (GCP)USANatural Language UnderstandingOpenAIUSAGenerative AIVonageUSACloud Communication Service ProviderBandwidthUSACommunication Platform for Messaging ServiceLobUSAAutomated direct mail and postal service providerMailParserUSAMail Parsing ServiceTwilioUSACloud Communication Service ProviderHome Junction / Attom DataUSAListing Data Analysis
Your opt in/opt out choices
By providing your phone number, you consent to receive SMS messages from us. Message and data rates may apply. Message frequency may vary depending on your interaction with our services. You may “opt in” and/or “opt out” of certain uses of your Personal Information. For example, you may have the opportunity to choose whether you would like to receive email or text correspondence from us. Your Personal Information will not be shared with third-party service providers unless you give consent. You will have the opportunity to opt out of mar

[...truncated...]