Accept-CH HTTP Header: Principles, Types, Working Examples - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The Accept-CH is an HTTP response header used by the webserver to request other information from web browsers regarding the client’s device, network, and user agent preferences. The Accept-CH  HTTP header allows web servers to customize the content they serve by optimizing images and other content for mobile devices or users on low-bandwidth connections. The Accept-CH HTTP response header is only accessible in a secure context (HTTPS). Although an experimental technology, the Accept-CH HTTP header is active and in the “last call” phase. The Accept-CH is limited to chrome-based browsers on desktop and android (such as Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, Opera, Brave, Vivaldi & Torch). The Accept-CH HTTP header is not available for non-chrome-based browsers (such as Mozilla Firefox, Safari, w3m, Microsoft Internet Explorer, and Servo). Web browser compatibility must be carefully checked before applying the Accept-CH HTTP header. A web server sets the Accept-CH header to determine which client hints are required to include in a request. Client hints is a cluster of HTTP request header fields that a web server requests from a client to obtain other information (such as screen density, viewport size, and internet connection speed).
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What are the principles of Accept-CH HTTP Header?
1.1.
What is the Syntax of Accept-CH HTTP Header?
1.2.
What are the directives of the Accept-CH HTTP Header?
2.
What are the Accept-CH related HTTP Headers?
2.1.
Examples of Accept-CH HTTP Header Use.
3.
What is the relation between the Accept-CH HTTP Header and the Vary HTTP Header?
What are the principles of Accept-CH HTTP Header?
The principles of the Accept-CH HTTP header are the functions it provides for the webserver to request the user agent information from the client. The web server will deliver the required resources to the web browser based on the received data. Through the use of the Accept-CH HTTP header, client hints modify performance concerns by ensuring that user agents will only send the request headers when required. They are modified with privacy concerns of passive fingerprinting by requiring explicit opt-in and disclosure of required headers by the server.
What is the Syntax of Accept-CH HTTP Header?
The syntax of the Accept-CH HTTP response header is below.
Accept-CH: <list of client hints>
An example of the Accept-CH HTTP response header is shown below for multiple client hints used. In this example, we have the Viewport-Width and Width as the client hints.
Accept-CH: Viewport-Width, Width
What are the directives of the Accept-CH HTTP Header?
The directives of the Accept-CH HTTP response header on sending a request are demonstrated below.
<Viewport-Width> provides information about the width of the client’s screen.
<Width> provides information about how wide the requested resources’ width should be.
<DPR>  provides information about the client’s screen density.
<Device-Memory>  provides information about the client’s RAM size.
<Downlink> provides information about the client’s bandwidth.
What are the Accept-CH related HTTP Headers?
The Accept-CH-related HTTP response header is the Vary HTTP response header. The Accept-CH HTTP header supports the web server on the client information request, while the Vary HTTP Header ensures that the user agent information undergoes a compress-algorithm before it is sent to the web browser.
Examples of Accept-CH HTTP Header Use.
An example of the Accept-CH HTTP response header is when there’s a client request sent to the webserver with no client hints included. The syntax format of the given example is shown below.
A client request was sent to the webserver with no client hints included.
https://sample_site.com/index.html
The Accept-CH HTTP header below will be sent to the client as a response.
<Accept-CH: Viewport-Width>
<Accept-CH: Width>
<Accept-CH: DPR, Device-Memory, Downlink>
On the example given for the Accept-CH HTTP header, the web server requires the client screen’s width, requested resources’ desired width, client’s RAM, screen density, and bandwidth.
What is the relation between the Accept-CH HTTP Header and the Vary HTTP Header?
The relationship between the Accept-CH HTTP response header and Vary HTTP  response header is the function of each header to provide the user agent information to the web browser from the client. When a web server requests the user agent information from the client by using the Accept-CH HTTP header, the client hints are forwarded to the web browser after the webserver uses the Vary HTTP header to determine the HTTP request headers to be used and ensure to decrease the response time and network bandwidth consumption used and ensure to reduce the uncompressed files to decrease the response time and network bandwidth consumption.
Author
Recent Posts
Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR
Owner and Founder
at
Holistic SEO & Digital
Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR is the CEO and Founder of Holistic SEO & Digital where he provides SEO Consultancy, Web Development, Data Science, Web Design, and Search Engine Optimization services with strategic leadership for the agency’s SEO Client Projects. Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR performs SEO A/B Tests regularly to understand the Google, Microsoft Bing, and Yandex like search engines’ algorithms, and internal agenda. Koray uses Data Science to understand the custom click curves and baby search engine algorithms’ decision trees. Tuğberk used many websites for writing different SEO Case Studies. He published more than 10 SEO Case Studies with 20+ websites to explain the search engines. Koray Tuğberk started his SEO Career in 2015 in the casino industry and moved into the white-hat SEO industry. Koray worked with more than 700 companies for their SEO Projects since 2015. Koray used SEO to improve the user experience, and conversion rate along with brand awareness of the online businesses from different verticals such as retail, e-commerce, affiliate, and b2b, or b2c websites. He enjoys examining websites, algorithms, and search engines.
Latest posts by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR
(
see all
)
Sliding Window
- August 12, 2024
B2P Marketing: How it Works, Benefits, and Strategies
- April 26, 2024
SEO for Casino Websites: A SEO Case Study for the Bet and Gamble Industry
- February 5, 2024
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
TechSEO
Accept-CH HTTP Header: Principles, Types, Working Examples
by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR
time to read: 3 min
TechSEO
Accept-Encoding HTTP Header: Principles, Types, Wo…
TechSEO
Vary HTTP response header: Principles, Types, Work…
0
0
0
