505 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The 505 HTTP Status Code means the version not supported indicates that the main version of HTTP in the request message is not supported or refused by the server. Other than this error message, the server is stating that it is unable or unwilling to complete the request using the same major version as the client, as indicated in Section 2.6 of RFC7230. There should be an explanation of why that version of the protocol is not supported, and what other protocols are supported by the server in the 505 HTTP Status Code response. The difference between HTTP Status Codes 500 and 505 is that the 500 HTTP Status Codes indicate that a generic error message that is displayed when an unexpected event occurs and no more particular message is appropriate, whereas the 505 HTTP Status Code indicates that the requested HTTP protocol version is not supported by the server.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does 505 HTTP Status Code Mean?
1.1.
How to Use 505 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
2.
How to Check 505 HTTP Status Code?
2.1.
Which HTTP Method is used with 505 HTTP Status Code?
3.
What is the Related HTTP Response Header with 505 HTTP Status Code?
4.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of 505 HTTP Status Code?
5.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to the 505 HTTP Status Code?
What does 505 HTTP Status Code Mean?
The 505 HTTP Status Code means the version not supported indicates that the major version of HTTP specified in the request message is not supported, or is refusing to be supported by the server. Any other way the server can indicate that it cannot or will not complete the request is by returning this error message. An explanation of why that version isn’t supported should be included in the 505 HTTP Status Code response, as well as a list of other protocols supported by the server.
How to Use 505 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
To use the 505 HTTP Status Code is when the server does not support the HTTP version specified in the request.
How to Check 505 HTTP Status Code?
To check the 505 HTTP Status Code Error. The following are listed below.
Generate an IP address using the site’s IP address (the URL without the leading ‘http://’). Domain name servers do this lookup (conversion of IP name to IP address) (DNSs).
Connect to the IP address through an IP socket.
Through that socket, write an HTTP data stream.
In response, the Web server will return an HTTP data stream. The HTTP protocol determines the values of the status codes contained in this data stream. Parse this data stream for valuable information such as status codes.
When the web server doesn’t really support or refuses to recognize the HTTP protocol version given by the client in the HTTP request data stream sent to the server, the 505 error final stage above is given. The following section discusses the various causes of this error.
The server is stating that it is unable or unwilling to finish the request using the client’s major version of the HTTP protocol.
If the HTTP version is followed by whitespace
The telnet connection’s URL was incorrectly copied.
If the user isn’t using a web browser.
Which HTTP Method is used with 505 HTTP Status Code?
The HTTP methods that are used with the 505 HTTP Status Code are given below.
HEAD HTTP Method: The HEAD HTTP method is used in the 505 HTTP Response Status Code. The HEAD method requests a response identical to that of the GET method, but without the content of the answer.
GET HTTP Method: The GET HTTP method is used in the 505 HTTP Response Status Code. The GET method is used to get a representation of a resource. Requests made with the GET method should only return data.
What is the Related HTTP Response Header with 505 HTTP Status Code?
There is only one related HTTP Header with 505 HTTP Status Code which is the Upgrade HTTP Header. The Upgrade HTTP Header can be used to change the protocol of a client/server connection that has already been established (over the same transport protocol).
What are the Browsers Compatibility of 505 HTTP Status Code?
The 505 HTTP Status Code is compatible with all browsers including Chrome, Edge, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Opera, Safari, and Webview Android.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to the 505 HTTP Status Code?
There are other similar HTTP Status Codes to the 505 HTTP Status Code. The following are listed below.
504 Gateway Timeout HTTP Status Code: The
504 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 505 HTTP Status Code because they are both server error responses. The 504 HTTP Status Code indicates that when the server is serving as a gateway and cannot get a response in time, this error response is returned.
506 Variant Also Negotiates HTTP Status Code: The
506 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 505 HTTP Status Code because they are both server error responses. The 506 HTTP Status Code indicates that the server configuration error: the selected variant resource is configured to engage in transparent content negotiation itself, and so is not an appropriate end point in the negotiation process, the server has an internal problem.
507 Insufficient Storage (WebDAV) HTTP Status Code: The
507 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 505 HTTP Status Code because they are both server error responses. The 507 HTTP Status Code indicates that the method could not be executed on the resource because the server lacks the storage required to correctly finish the request.
508 Loop Detected (WebDAV) HTTP Status Code: The
508 HTTP Status
Code is similar to the 505 HTTP Status Code because they are both server error responses. The 508 HTTP Status Code indicates that during the processing of the request, the server discovered an infinite loop.
Author
Recent Posts
Follow SEO
Holistic SEO
SEO Research Department
at
Holistic SEO & Digital
Holistic SEO & Digital has been built by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR. Holistic SEO is the process of developing integrated digital marketing projects with every aspect including Coding, Natural Language Processing, Data Science, Page Speed, Digital Analytics, Content Marketing, Technical SEO, and Branding. Structured, Semantic Search Engine improves its ability to detect the real-world entities, today. Having a simple website is not enough anymore. To show that your brand is authoritative, trustworthy, and expert on its own niche, you need entity-based Search Engine Optimization Projects. Holistic SEO & Digital's main focus is on improving the brand's organic visibility and growth potential.
Follow SEO
Latest posts by Holistic SEO
(
see all
)
48 Online Shopping and Consumer Behavior Statistics, Facts and Trends
- August 22, 2023
B2B Marketing Statistics
- August 22, 2023
38 Podcast Statistics, Facts, and Trends
- August 22, 2023
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
TechSEO
505 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods
by Holistic SEO
time to read: 3 min
TechSEO
507 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
TechSEO
HTML <dir> Tag Definition, Usage and Example…
0
0
0