Purposely vs Purposefully: Difference between Them and How to correctly use them - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The words “purposely” and “purposefully” are two English words that are often confused. The reason for that is they both have the same root, “purpose.” The words “purposely” and “purposefully” are both adverbs, and are only a shade apart in meaning. The word “purposely” means “on purpose” or “intentionally.” Meanwhile, the word “purposefully” means “with a purpose.” Although very similar, in context, “purposefully” is usually used to indicate a greater level of intent or deliberate aim, as opposed to “purposely.”
The difference and comparison between “purposely” and “purposefully” are listed below.
“Purposely” is used as an adverb.
“Purposely” is used to mean “intentionally.”
“Purposely” is more commonly used in the English language.
“Purposely” is used to describe what is meant to be done.
“Purposely” is used to modify the verbs.
“Purposefully” is used as an adverb.
“Purposefully” is used to describe an action in terms of the goal.
“Purposefully” is used to refer to a greater level of intent.
“Purposefully” is used to carry out with a specific purpose in mind.
“Purposefully” is used to describe the action or demeanor of a person who is determined or resolute.
The context of the sentence must be identified first in deciding whether to use “purposely” or “purposefully.” The word “purposely” is used to describe an action that is carried out for a specific reason. It is used in sentences as an indicator that an action was carried out with a specific purpose in mind. An example of the word “purposely” in sentences includes,  “She left the stones there purposely so that on their way back, they would know that they were going in the right direction.” On the other hand, “purposefully” means a manner that projects perseverance. It is used in sentences that require an expression of persistence, hard work, or confidence. One example of the term “purposefully” in a sentence is, “She purposefully announced that she is going to run for campus president.” On top of that, the words “purposely” and purposefully” are both words of the same origin. However, the word “purposely” is more about doing something intentionally, while the word “purposefully” is more about demonstrating resolve or determination.
The usage of “purposely” in sentences that discusses intentions is correct as it is highly suitable and completes the whole thought. The same with “purposefully”, it is used correctly because the sentence is talking about determination. There are no grammar errors in the sentences as the words used are neither misspellings nor contradicting. They only become grammar errors when they are misused interchangeably, which makes the sentences incomprehensible to readers. Content writers and marketers must be careful using these words as they have meaning similarities which are quite confusing.
“Why to know the difference between “Purposely” and “Purposefully” for content writing and marketing?” It is extremely significant to know the difference between “purposely” and “purposefully.” The knowledge about the difference between these words allows authors to write better content and communicate in a healthier way. The inability to distinguish the distinction between “purposely” and “purposefully” causes someone to misuse them interchangeably within sentences. The misuse of “purposely” and “purposefully” hinders the capacity of the article to deliver useful information to the readers due to incorrect grammar.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does “Purposely” Mean?
1.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Purposely”?
1.2.
When to use the word “Purposely” in a sentence?
2.
What does “Purposefully” Mean?
2.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Purposefully”?
2.2.
When to use the word “Purposefully” in a sentence?
2.3.
What are the synonyms of “Purposefully”?
2.4.
Are the words “Purposely” and “Purposefully” interchangeable?
3.
Comparison between “Purposely” and “Purposefully”
4.
Why are “Purposely” and “Purposefully” misused and interchangeably in English?
4.1.
Are “Purposely” and “Purposefully” the most commonly misused English words?
4.2.
What are the other similar Misused Word Pairs like “Purposefully” and “Purposely” in English?
4.3.
What are the things should a content writer consider in using the word “Purposely” and “Purposefully”?
4.4.
Can content writers use “Purposely” and “Purposefully” in one sentence?
5.
How do Content Writers use “Purposely” and “Purposefully” in their articles?
5.1.
Do Content Writers use “Purposely” and “Purposefully” in the wrong way?
5.2.
Do Misused Words such as “Purposefully” and “Purposely” affect SEO and UX?
What does “Purposely” Mean?
The word “purposely” is an adverb. It is a synonym of the word “intentionally” that describes an action that was meant to be done, or in other words, on purpose. The word “purposely” is the right word to choose if the intent behind the action doesn’t really matter, as long as the action was intentionally done. As an adverb, “purposely” modifies verbs by describing how they are performed. Further to that, the word “purposely” comes from the verb “purpose.” The verb “purpose” was derived from the word “purpus,” which means “intention, aim, goal.” It means an object to be kept in view or the proper function for which something exists. The word is further derived from Anglo-French “purpos,” or Old French “porpos,” which means “an aim, intention” during the 12th century. Moreover, the word “purposely” itself came into English in the late 1400s or early 1500s, right in the middle of a “ly” adverb boom in English. The word “purposely” later on became a common term and is commonly used in the English language. It later became one of the most important words in daily life and is used to describe an action that is being done intentionally.
What are the sentence examples with “Purposely”?
Listed below are the example sentences using the word “purposely.”
She did not
purposely
say things to please him, but whatever she was saying, he regarded from his standpoint. The sentence utilized “purposely” to indicate that someone is not saying things with a sort of intention.
She was
purposely
vague, enjoying the fact that his full attention was on her. “Purposely” was used in the sentence to describe someone’s motive on acting vague.
He knows that he has made a mistake and says to her that he hasn’t done anything
purposely
. The word “purposely” was used in the example to express that someone did not commit a mistake with objectives.
Kids do not
purposely
make gift buying difficult. The sentence example made use of “purposely” to talk about how children are effortlessly predictable in terms of buying a gift for them.
The court trial has been
purposely
delayed. The term “purposely” was used to emphasize that the court trial has been delayed for certain reasons.
When to use the word “Purposely” in a sentence?
The word “purposely” must be used in sentences that demand the context of motives or aims. “Purposely” is a term that provides a clearer picture of why a sudden action or movement has been done by someone. It is commonly an answer to a “why?” question. An example of “purposely” in a sentence is, “The veterinarian did not feed the sick dog purposely because it irritates its stomach.” “Purposely” is not appropriate to be used in the context of accidental happenings as these do not have any purpose or objectives.
What does “Purposefully” Mean?
The word “purposefully” is an adverb. It describes an action that was carried out for a specific reason. The word “purposefully” does matter. It is not merely describing an action that someone is meant to do. It is about describing an action in terms of the goal the person had in mind when he or she did it. Further to that, the word “purposefully” came from the verb word “purpose.” The verb “purpose” was derived from the word “purpus,” which means “goal, intention, and aim.” The word “purpus” means an object to be kept in view or a proper function for which something exists. The word was further derived from the Anglo-French “purpos,” Old French “porpos,” which means “an aim, or intention” during the 12th century. Moreover, the word “purposefully” is a relative newcomer. The earliest evidence for the word currently comes from the mid-1800s. On top of that, the word “purposefully” is a common word but not as common as “purposely.” However, the word “purposefully” became an important term in the daily lives of individuals. They use the word “purposefully” to convey the message indicating the existence of a purpose or object.
What are the sentence examples with “Purposefully”?
Listed below are the example sentences for using the word “purposefully.”
Making plans with others and
purposefully
leaving her behind. The word “purposefully” in the sentence serves as a description of the full intention of leaving someone behind.
He walked out
purposefully
. The act of walking out with a reason has been contextualized using “purposefully.”
He wore the dress
purposefully
. “Purposefully” has been used to emphasize the decision to wear a dress that has been made with a motive.
He approached his parents
purposefully
to ask permission for summer camp. The sentence example has “purposefully” to indicate that the action done is aiming to ask for permission.
Her boss
purposefully
showed her how every file needed to be organized in order to avoid further errors. The example used “purposefully” to highlight the objective of the boss in demonstrating the task.
When to use the word “Purposefully” in a sentence?
The term “purposefully” must be used in a particular sentence when trying to convey the meaning, “in a way that shows determination and resolve.” It is utilized in another sentence that requires the word that means, “full of purpose.” “Purposefully” gives contexts to actions that seem irrational or unreasonable. An example of “purposefully” in a sentence is, “I think the movie was purposefully made to have a sad ending.” The word “purposefully” is not recommended to be used in sentences that discusses unintentional actions as it is irrelevant and contradictory.
What are the synonyms of “Purposefully”?
​​There are a lot of synonyms for the word “purposefully.” Some of them are “advisedly,” “consciously,” “deliberately,” “intentionally,” “knowingly,” “purposively,” “willfully,” etc. Some examples of synonyms include the phrase “Each toy is developed purposively (purposefully).” “He began to move, for the first time, in a purposively (purposefully) direction. Moreover, the synonym “purposively” shares all the same synonyms as the word “purposefully.” However, when it comes to other variations of the term “purposefully,” the modification is different depending on the phrases that are being used. One of the famous phrase synonyms for “purposefully” is “on purpose.”
Are the words “Purposely” and “Purposefully” interchangeable?
No, the words “purposefully” and “purposely” are not interchangeable. The words “purposefully” and “purposely” have subtly different meanings even though both of the words come from the verb “purpose.” Most people get confused with the words “purposely” and “purposefully” because both words are used as adjectives, and they share the same root, which most people, writers, and speakers get confused with. The only thing that differentiates them is the year that they were first used and the intent behind their meaning. The word “purposely” is more about describing an action that is done intentionally. Meanwhile, the word “purposefully” is more about showing an action that someone knows what they want to do.
Comparison between “Purposely” and “Purposefully”
Listed below are the comparison between “purposely” and “purposefully.”
Listed below is the table that shows the comparison between the verbs “was” and “were.”
The English Words
Definition
Context
Example Sentences
Purposely
The term “purposely“ depicts an
action that is made with determination and the desired objective.
The word “purposely“ is utilized in sentences as an adverb.
He never
purposely
disappointed him.
He
purposely
created a scene in public.
Purposefully
The word “purposefully“
pertains to an act that was intended to be created.
The word “purposefully“
is used as an adverb in sentences.
The Victoria’s Secret models
purposefully
avoid sweets and bread so that
they are able to keep their weight down.
She
purposefully
made a mistake.
Why are “Purposely” and “Purposefully” misused and interchangeably in English?
The words “purposely” and “purposefully” share the same root word which causes them to be misused interchangeably. Additionally, “purposely” and “purposefully” have almost the same exact meaning. The word “purposely” is more about doing things intentionally. Meanwhile, the word “purposefully” is more about having full awareness of what one is doing. Speakers and writers frequently interchange these words as they fall into the category of conveying an action with intention. Making an effort to know the difference between the meaning of “purposely” and “purposefully” is a way to avoid misusing these words. Spotting the difference between their spelling is another method because “purposely” and “purposefully” possess a major distinction in the way they are spelled.
Are “Purposely” and “Purposefully” the most commonly misused English words?
Yes, the words “purposely” and “purposefully” are among the most commonly misused English words. These terms are commonly interchanged because they come from an entirely similar root word. “Purposely” and “purposefully” are extremely difficult to distinguish in terms of definition because they refer to almost the same meaning. The word “purposely” is more about doing something with a purpose. Meanwhile, the word “purposefully” is more often used to describe an act that is done with determination and a detailed purpose. These factors are the reasons why “pu

[...truncated...]
