429 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The 429 HTTP Status Code indicates that the request was too many requests. This means that the user sent too many requests in a short period of time (“rate limiting”). The response representations include information about the condition as well as a Retry-After header indicating how long to wait before making another request. There is only one method used with the 426 HTTP Status Code which is the HEAD method. The difference between the 429 HTTP Status Code and the 400 HTTP Status Codes is that the 400 HTTP Status Codes could not understand the request due to invalid syntax, whereas the 429 HTTP Status Code is a response from a server, Application Programming Interface (API), or plugin telling the client application to stop sending requests because they don’t have enough resources to accept them right now.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does 429 HTTP Status Code Mean?
1.1.
How to Use 429 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
2.
How to Check 429 HTTP Status Code?
2.1.
Which HTTP Method is used with 429 HTTP Status Code?
3.
What are the Related HTTP Response Headers with 429 HTTP Status Code?
4.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of 429 HTTP Status Code?
5.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to the 429 HTTP Status Code?
What does 429 HTTP Status Code Mean?
The HTTP 429 HTTP Status Code also known as Error 429 indicates that the client application has reached its rate limit, or the maximum number of requests it can send in a given amount of time. This code will typically not only tell the client to stop sending requests, but it will also tell them when they can send another request. Additionally, the 429 HTTP Status Code may appear in response to security measures.
How to Use 429 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
To use the 429 HTTP Status Code on the website, troubleshooting should be used by the web developer. Error troubleshooting is difficult because it provides little information about what it is or how to solve it. You know there’s something wrong and you need to fix it, but you’re not sure what happened or why. To ensure you understand and can resolve this issue, we’ll go over what the 429 HTTP Status Code error means and the most common solutions.
How to Check 429 HTTP Status Code?
To check the 429 HTTP Status Code use the web browser network tab and developer tools for every resource that the client uses.
Which HTTP Method is used with 429 HTTP Status Code?
There is only one method used with the 429 HTTP Status Code which is the HEAD method. In the 429 HTTP Status Code, the HEAD method is used to send a response from a web server or an application programming interface (API). The HEAD method requests a response that is identical to a GET request but does not include the response body.
What are the Related HTTP Response Headers with 429 HTTP Status Code?
There is only one related HTTP Response Header with the 429 HTTP Status Code which is the Retry-After HTTP Header. The
Retry-After
HTTP Header specifies how long the user agent should wait before attempting another request. This indicates how long to wait before making a new request when sent with a 429 HTTP Status Code response.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of 429 HTTP Status Code?
The 429 HTTP Status Code is compatible with all browsers including Chrome, Edge, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Opera, Safari, and Webview Android.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to the 429 HTTP Status Code?
There are other similar HTTP Status Codes to 429 HTTP Status Code. The following HTTP Status Codes are listed below.
413 Payload Too Large HTTP Status Code: The request entity is larger than the limits defined by the server. The server might close the connection or return a Retry-After header field. The
413 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 429 HTTP Status Code which is also a client error response.
417 Expectation Failed HTTP Status Code: This response code means the expectation indicated by the Expect request-header field cannot be met by the server. The
417 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 429 HTTP Status Code which is also a client error response.
422 Unprocessable Entity (WebDAV) HTTP Status Code: The request was well-formed but was unable to be followed due to semantic errors. The
422 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 429 HTTP Status Code which is also a client error response.
428 Precondition Required HTTP Status Code: The origin server requires a conditional request. This response is intended to prevent the ‘lost update’ problem, which occurs when a client GETs a resource’s state, modifies it, and PUTs it back to the server while a third party modifies the server’s state, resulting in a conflict. The
428 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 429 HTTP Status Code which is also a client error response.
Author
Recent Posts
Follow SEO
Holistic SEO
SEO Research Department
at
Holistic SEO & Digital
Holistic SEO & Digital has been built by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR. Holistic SEO is the process of developing integrated digital marketing projects with every aspect including Coding, Natural Language Processing, Data Science, Page Speed, Digital Analytics, Content Marketing, Technical SEO, and Branding. Structured, Semantic Search Engine improves its ability to detect the real-world entities, today. Having a simple website is not enough anymore. To show that your brand is authoritative, trustworthy, and expert on its own niche, you need entity-based Search Engine Optimization Projects. Holistic SEO & Digital's main focus is on improving the brand's organic visibility and growth potential.
Follow SEO
Latest posts by Holistic SEO
(
see all
)
48 Online Shopping and Consumer Behavior Statistics, Facts and Trends
- August 22, 2023
B2B Marketing Statistics
- August 22, 2023
38 Podcast Statistics, Facts, and Trends
- August 22, 2023
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
TechSEO
429 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods
by Holistic SEO
time to read: 3 min
TechSEO
409 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
TechSEO
599 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
0
0
0