How to Expand a Topical Map for Higher Topical Authority? - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
Topical Authority is a positive ranking state. The concept of Topical Authority is founded, and integrated into the semantic SEO discipline with the “
Importance of Topical Authority
Case Study”. The same case study explained concepts within the scope of Semantic SEO, such as Topical Borders, Topical Coverage, Topical Maps, and Historical Data.
All these concepts proved that Topical Authority is a reality, and many concepts such as
RankMerge and Knowledge-based Trust
, and Contextual Search Engines are integrated into the ranking systems of Popular Search Engines.
To further deepen and explain the Topical Authority concept,
Semantic Content Networks
,
Quality Thresholds
, Topical Borders, Topical Gaps, Topical Prioritization, Contextual Vectors, Contextual Coverage, Contextual Layers, and Hierarchy,
Cross-lingual Information Retrieval
, Contextual Domains,
Semantic SEO Introduction
,
Broad Index Refresh, Topical Consolidation
,
Initial Ranking, Re-ranking
Used,
Ranking Signal Consolidation
in SEO Case Studies explain the concepts of Selection Satisfaction,
Search Engine Trust
,
Author Authority and Rank
,
Context Sharpening, and Signalling
. To deepen the Semantic SEO with
Multilingual SEO
and
Multiregional SEO
, guides are written because Semantic SEO is language-agnostic, but it works differently for Cross-lingual Information Retrieval.
The latest research to explain the concept of
Topical Authority
,
Lexical Relations, and Lexicosemantics for SEO
, is the most controlled and rich case study published in SEO history, with 26 sample full-scale SEO studies, and open search console data. Later, I published articles for specific industries by using semantics and
Holistic SEO approach
such as
B2B SEO Guide
.
To extend the concept of Topical Authority and make it fully usable by SEOs, the concepts that will be unveiled today are “Source Context, Brand Identity, and Contextual Bridges”.
To understand this SEO Case Study, you should read the previous case studies marked with the links above.
“Information Responsiveness” and “Cost-of-Retrieval” will be explained later with case studies published in book form with the names below.
Importance of Information Responsiveness for SEO: How to Balance PageRank?
Semantic SEO and Cost of Retrieval for Search Engines: Balance of Relevance, Quality, and Cost of Documents for Indexing
How Search Engines Know Everything You Meant to Ask
The Semantic SEO Course for explaining Topical Authority further to “Change SEO Culture”, is designed for beginners, the advanced module with 55 hours of semantic SEO training will be given only to people who show success with the initial modules.
To learn when the Semantic SEO Course comes, and on which website you can enroll, be on the join-list with Holistic SEO Newsletter.
As a personal note from the author of this SEO Case Study.
“I conceptualized and defined Topical Authority to change the SEO Culture. It also became a mainstream SEO media concept, demonstrating the power search philosophy behind the advanced holistic SEO methodologies that I employ. But, the biggest happiness from SEO comes from the positive impact on people’s lives, and the friendships that come from this change. In this SEO Case Study, you will see two lovely people who visited me and trained me, with their results. I hope we can meet one day and share the same feelings.”
A meaningful memoir for me to remember in the future, and feel why I started to teach Semantic SEO.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
Background of the SEO Case Study
2.
First Website: Over 110% Organic Click and 7,000+ Top 1-3 Ranking Query Increase
3.
Second Website: Over 245% Organic Click and 39,000 Total Ranking Query Increase
4.
Third Website: Over 1200% Organic Click and 3600 Total Ranking Query Increase
5.
Fourth Website: Over 5150% Organic Click and 45,000+ Total Ranking Query Increase
6.
Fifth Website: Over 120% Organic Click and 561,000+ Total Ranking Query Increase
7.
Sixth Website: Over 320% Organic Click and 413,000+ Total Ranking Query Increase
8.
Seventh Website: Over 350% Organic Click and 210,000+ Total Ranking Query Increase
9.
Eight Website: Over 350% Organic Click and 68,500+ Total Ranking Query Increase
10.
Ninth Website: Over 200% Organic Click and 210,000+ Total Ranking Query Increase
11.
Tenth Website: From 0 to 1,000,000 Organic Clicks a Month
12.
Eleventh Website: Over 100% Organic Click and 210,000+ Total Ranking Query Increase
13.
Some Other Topical Map Expansion Examples
14.
Importance of Source Context, Brand Identity, and Contextual Bridges for SEO
14.1.
What is Source Context?
14.1.1.
Why is Source Context important for Semantic SEO and Topical Maps?
14.2.
What is Contextual Bridge?
14.2.1.
Why is Contextual Bridge Important for Semantic SEO and Topical Maps?
14.3.
What is Brand Identity?
14.3.1.
Why is Brand Identity Important for Semantic SEO and Topical Maps?
Background of the SEO Case Study
The main reason why I mostly prefer newly established brand-new domains for Topical Authority is that no dirty data from the past is in the search engine’s memory. Therefore, all I have to deal with is the creation of a topical map and a semantic content network. I can set up a new domain as a “web entity” as I want. However, on existing websites, there may be inconsistencies between the direction the project should go and the direction it has come from in the past.
This project will explain how the topical maps are extended by considering 5 different real-world SEO Projects with open names, faces, and naked data. Real education focuses on results, and action, not on tools, or fancy slides. This SEO case study explains in layman’s terms how to expand a topical map to establish better topical authority.
First Website: Over 110% Organic Click and 7,000+ Top 1-3 Ranking Query Increase
Background of SEO Project:
TeamColorcodes.com is the subject of an SEO A/B Test that is performed inside the “contextual Search SEO Case Study”. The question generation, and answering with certain pairs, while increasing the “prose-type of content’s existence” inside the content is used. The structured and unstructured language has to be used together for better relevance and search engine communication. This was one of the best proof that the teachings from Search Engine Patents such as “Candidate Answer Passage Scoring” works like a charm for SEO.
The owner of this company has sent me two gifts. One of them has the words of John Mueller for the Dear Rebecca Barbel and Me on glass, another one has the words of Bill Slawski on Holisticseo.digital’s
Theoretical SEO
section.
The specific last 16 months of performance for the project with the organic search and impression increase is below as naked.
Topical Map of SEO Project
: The Topical Map of the SEO Project for Teamcolorcodes.com focuses on “team color codes with different formats, as structured and unstructured”. How can we play with Microsemantics to have higher relevance for such a templatic content, and topic? The “Information Extraction from Templatic Content” requires more “Information Extraction Points”, and “repetitiveness of the evidence” with different semantically close predicates” with different Tense, Aspect, and Modality pairs as in
Formal Semantics
.
How to Expand the Topical Map
: To expand the topical map of the Teamcolorcodes, there are three ways. These are “covering more entities from the same type”, “covering more attributes from already existing entities”, and “deepening the context with further consistency”. Different taxonomies and ontologies show the way for entity-oriented searches, such as using “other leagues”, “other football teams”, “team color codes, and team colors on uniforms, logos”, or “team color sections, and their meanings”, “team color percentages compared to each other”.
This is a screenshot from the client that shows the web pages that are created with the new format keep users longer on the web pages with a lower bounce rate.
I know many of you will ask me why. Semantics live inside your brain. Read Google Patents, and listen to your inner voice.
Obstacles to the Semantic Content Network
: The biggest obstacle to creating a semantic content network is training an author. Luckily, Teamcolorcodes and Paul Jensen have a great team and personalities in their team. Thus, the main obstacle for this project was understanding which phrases and attributes are weighted more, and how these weights change over time. Because you do not always rank higher, it ranks higher, then lower, then higher again. Understanding “
How does Google Rank
” is a key to optimizing content networks.
Results for the SEO Project
: Over 110% Organic Search Click Performance Increase, 7,000+ 1-3 Ranking Queries, 400+ 4-10 Ranking Queries, 17,000+ Total New Ranking Queries.
Thanks to Holistic SEO & Digital Testimonial:
“Working with Koray on Teamcolorcodes has been a great experience so far. It’s a lot of work to get everything right and do it ‘the Koray way’, but the results are there, so it’s all worth it. The focus of this project has been completed on semantic content, and we’ve edited many pages. We monetize Teamcolorcodes.com with ads and one very nice side effect we’ve seen is that the RPM of the pages we applied Koray’s strategies to, increased by a lot because of all the extra content that was added to the pages (more content = of course, more room for ads).”
Paul Jensen, Owner of Flaticons
Second Website: Over 245% Organic Click and 39,000 Total Ranking Query Increase
Background of SEO Project
: Kanbanize.com focuses on Kanban Dashboards, for efficiency management, and business teams’ working flows improvement. Kanbanize.com is one of the largest companies for Kanban Charts. A topical map and over 200 content brief designs with certain templates, training, and recordings are left to the team of Kanbanize.com. The company’s results are published 1 year after the actual work to protect its overall authority. To have a permanent topical authority, a source needs to have positive query log sessions with user satisfaction signals. A source that is prioritized for a topic might be replaced by another one, but to make it sticky, or permanent, the source needs to stay in the results with higher click satisfaction for a certain amount of time to be approved. Search Engine Tolerance and Source Prioritization are related to other concepts that I use for describing these search engine behaviors. For example, in the Holistic SEO Case Study and Tutorial, to be an authority, and increase organic traffic by over %5000 we implemented technical SEO. Then, we lost all the Technical SEO improvements, but we didn’t lose the rankings despite we gained the rankings thanks to Technical SEO improvements. Because, the source already has proven itself, and it has a positive Ranking State. To understand Ranking State, Search Engine Tolerance, and Source Prioritization, you can read the related guide. In short, waiting for 1 year to publish the Kanbanize.com results come from respect to this lovely team.
Topical Map of SEO Project
: The topical map of the SEO Project had many gaps at the beginning. It was mainly focusing on the “Kanban Charts”, and only the “query phrases” for Kanban Charts. But, lexicosemantics and conceptual maps work differently in query semantics, and query networks. The Kanban Charts serve a purpose, and they have alternatives, similarities, or complements of other implementations. “Task Management”, “Task Efficiency”, “Team Management”, “Business Charts”, “Business Efficiency”, and “Business Management” is the main expansion points with 100s of other sub and side-topics, and contexts for the Kanbanize.com for better historical data, and overall contextual relevance, and consolidation.
How to Expand the Topical Map
: To expand the topical map of the project, the existing content network has to be examined. And, the homepage, and some best sub-pages in terms of query count, and external links were differently organized compared to the competitors’ work. The query networks’ borders and web pages’ conceptual borders were not symmetric. Thus, some revision briefs and extra semantic content networks are united for better harmony for the neural nets of users that type the queries and select the results. Neural nets represent the perception map of people, and it is the concept that inspires neural networks for Deep Learning.
Obstacles for the Semantic Content Network
: While improving relevance for Q1, you can decrease the relevance for Q2. The distance between Q1 and Q2 represents the overall relevance between different web document sections. If sections are discordant with each other, or if these queries are centroids for different query clusters, the document will lose its ranking signals. Thus, the biggest obstacle was expanding the topical maps between T1 and T2, grouping and sharing the queries between existing web pages, and newly designed web pages, assigning queries to topics correctly and signaling them on the anchor texts.
Results for the SEO Project
: %245 Organic Click Increase, 39,000+ New Ranking Queries, 7,000+ New 1-3 Ranking Queries, 5350 New 4-10 Ranking Queries.
Thanks to Holistic SEO & Digital Testimonial:
“Koray’s expertise is a mix of hardcore SEO topics, in-depth technical knowledge, and a vast experience in various industries. He’s very diligent and pedantic about the task to be delivered and has definitely raised the bar high. On top of that, he’s a nice and pleasant person to work with. Highly recommended!”
Dimitar Karaivanov – CEO of Kanbanize.com
“Koray’s technical SEO expertise has been a great asset to our team. He helped us dive deep into SEO and really understand some advanced topics, which have been very helpful for our organic performance. He’s always open to answering questions and providing advice for handling complex issues that can elevate anyone’s 

[...truncated...]