Server HTTP Header: Syntax, Directive, Examples - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The Server HTTP Header is a type of response header that contains information about the software that the server is using to process all requests. The Server HTTP Header contains only a few characteristics about the server, such as the server name and the software used to manage the server, such as sffe or Cloudflare. Hide all critical information, as it makes it easier for attackers to compromise the server software. There is only one value for using the Server HTTP Header. The value using the SourceMap HTTP Header is the product. An example of the Server HTTP Header is written below.
Server: Apache/2.4.1 (Unix)
The Server HTTP Header Response Header is seen above. In the article, the Server HTTP Header Syntax, Directives, and Uses examples will be processed.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What is Server HTTP Header?
1.1.
What is the Syntax of Server HTTP Header?
1.2.
What is the Directive of Server HTTP Header?
2.
How to use Server HTTP Header?
2.1.
Examples of Server HTTP Header Use
3.
What is the Specification Document for Server HTTP Header?
4.
What is the type of Server HTTP Header?
4.1.
What is the similar HTTP Header to the Server HTTP Header?
5.
Which Browsers Support Server HTTP Header?
What is Server HTTP Header?
The Server HTTP Header provides information about the software that was used by the origin server that handled the request that is, the server that created the response in order to process the request.
What is the Syntax of Server HTTP Header?
The Server HTTP Header uses only one value in its syntax. The syntax for using the Server HTTP Header is written below.
Server: <product>
What is the Directive of Server HTTP Header?
The Server HTTP Header only contains one directive. The product specifies the software that was utilized by the server. An example directive for using the Server HTTP Header is given below.
server: sffe
How to use Server HTTP Header?
Generally, the Server HTTP Header is a response-type header that carries information about the software that the server is using to handle all of the requests received by it. The Server HTTP Header will only contain a few facts about the server, such as the server name and software, such as sffe, Cloudflare, and so on. Keep all of the vital information hidden since attackers may find it easier to compromise the server software if all of the information is available.
Examples of Server HTTP Header Use
The following is an example of how to use the Server HTTP Header.
Cloudflare is the name of the software used by the server in this example.
server: cloudflare
In this case, the server name is Akamai Resource Optimizer, and the server-timing header is also displayed.
server: Akamai Resource Optimizer
server-timing: cdn-cache; desc=HIT
server-timing: edge; dur=1
What is the Specification Document for Server HTTP Header?
There is only one specification document for the Server HTTP Header, which is RFC 7321. RFC 7231 Section 7.4.2 discusses the Server HTTP Header and its applications. Additionally, the article discusses the Server HTTP Header’s definition and usage.
What is the type of Server HTTP Header?
The Server HTTP Header is a Response Header type because it contains additional information about the response, such as its location or the server that provided it.
What is the similar HTTP Header to the Server HTTP Header?
There is only one similar HTTP Header to the Server HTTP Header, which is the Allow HTTP Header. The
Allow HTTP Header
specifies the methods that a resource supports. If the server responds with a 405 Method Not Allowed status code, this header must be sent to indicate which request methods can be used. The Allow HTTP Header is a type of HTTP response, similar to the Server HTTP Header.
Which Browsers Support Server HTTP Header?
There are multiple browsers that support Server HTTP Header. The following browsers are listed below.
Chrome Browser is compatible with the Server HTTP Header.
Edge Browser is compatible with the Server HTTP Header.
Firefox Browser is compatible with the Server HTTP Header.
Internet Explorer Browser is compatible with the Server HTTP Header.
Opera Browser is compatible with the Server HTTP Header.
Safari Browser is compatible with the Server HTTP Header.
WebView Android Browser is compatible with the Server HTTP Header.
Chrome Android Browser is compatible with the Server HTTP Header.
Firefox Android Browser is compatible with the Server HTTP Header.
Opera Android Browser is compatible with the Server HTTP Header.
Safari IOS Browser is compatible with the Server HTTP Header.
Samsung Internet Browser is compatible with the Server HTTP Header.
You can see an image that shows cross-browser compatibility of Server HTTP Headers below.
Author
Recent Posts
Follow SEO
Holistic SEO
SEO Research Department
at
Holistic SEO & Digital
Holistic SEO & Digital has been built by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR. Holistic SEO is the process of developing integrated digital marketing projects with every aspect including Coding, Natural Language Processing, Data Science, Page Speed, Digital Analytics, Content Marketing, Technical SEO, and Branding. Structured, Semantic Search Engine improves its ability to detect the real-world entities, today. Having a simple website is not enough anymore. To show that your brand is authoritative, trustworthy, and expert on its own niche, you need entity-based Search Engine Optimization Projects. Holistic SEO & Digital's main focus is on improving the brand's organic visibility and growth potential.
Follow SEO
Latest posts by Holistic SEO
(
see all
)
48 Online Shopping and Consumer Behavior Statistics, Facts and Trends
- August 22, 2023
B2B Marketing Statistics
- August 22, 2023
38 Podcast Statistics, Facts, and Trends
- August 22, 2023
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
TechSEO
Server HTTP Header: Syntax, Directive, Examples
by Holistic SEO
time to read: 3 min
TechSEO
Server-Timing HTTP Header: Syntax, Directive, Exam…
TechSEO
Public-Key-Pins HTTP Header: Syntax, Directive, Ex…
0
0
0