Log File: Definition, Structure and Usage - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
Log files, which are also called event log files, are ordinary text files. It contains all processes that have been defined as relevant by the programmer of the respective application. In the case of a database log file, for example, these are all changes to correctly completed transactions. Are parts of the database deleted, e.g. In the event of a system crash, for example, the log file serves as the basis for restoring the correct data.
Log files are generated automatically according to the respective programming; However, it is also possible to create your own log files – provided the necessary know-how is available. Generally, one line of a log file contains the following two information:
Recorded
event
(e.g. a program start)
Timestamp
that assigns the date and time to the event
Typically, the time is prefixed to reflect the chronological order of events.
Short Definition:
A log file is a file in which processes that run in a computer or network system are logged. Another name for a log file is therefore also a log file. Log files provide important data for the analysis of networks or access to a web server or website. For a long time, log file analysis was the most common method to obtain data about visitors to a website.
Some of the related guidelines:
What is the Log File Analysis?
How to Verify Googlebot via Python in Scale for Cleaning the Log File
Contents of the Article
show
1.
Content of a Log File
2.
Typical areas of application for log files
3.
The perfect example of the potential for log files: web server log files
3.1.
The individual parameters explained:
4.
Use of log files for SEO
Content of a Log File
A log file usually contains the same information. It usually only varies the order of the information. The most common formats for log files are NCSA, W3SVC, Microsoft IIS3.0, and O’Reilly.
Each log file consists of individual lines called hits. In these hits, the data is logged with a timestamp, which is transferred from a server to a client. The following information is in a log file:
The username provided the account is protected with a password
Access time
IP
or
DNS address
Command requested by the server
Filename and path
Type of transmission protocol, e.g. https
Bytes transferred
Browser used
Operating system used
URL previously visited by the user
Server Status Codes
Typical areas of application for log files
Operating systems create several log files by default, in which the different process types are categorized. For example, Windows systems keep logs of application events, system events, security-related events, set-up events, and forward events.
Administrators
can view the relevant log file to find information that can help them troubleshoot the problem. In addition, the Windows log files show which user logged on and off on the system and when. In addition to the operating system, it is the following programs and systems that in turn collect very different data:
Background programs
such as B. Mail, database, or proxy servers generate log files that primarily record error messages, event messages, and notices. This is primarily due to the backup and possible recovery of the data.
Installed software
such as office programs, games, instant messengers, firewalls, or virus scanners stores very different data in the log file. This can be, for example, configurations or chat messages. Above all, the focus here is on the collection of program crashes in favor of rapid error handling.
Servers
(especially
web servers
) log relevant network activities that contain useful information about users and their behavior in the network. Authorized administrators can find out, among other things, which user started an application or requested a file, at what time, how long he took the activity, and which operating system was used. The web server log file analysis is one of the oldest methods of web controlling and the best example of the possibilities of log files.
The perfect example of the potential for log files: web server log files
Originally, the log file from web servers such as Apache or Microsoft IIS was used to record and correct errors in the process flow as standard. However, it was quickly discovered that the web server log file can provide much more valuable data – such as
information about the popularity and usability of the website hosted on the server,
including useful information about visitors, such as:
Time of page views
Number of page views
Duration of the session
IP address and host name of the user
Information about the requesting client (usually browser)
Search engine used including search query
Operating system used
A
typical entry of
a web server log file looks like this:
183.121.143.32 – – [18 / Mar / 2003: 08: 04: 22 +0200] “GET /images/logo.jpg HTTP / 1.1” 200 512 “http://www.wikipedia.org/” “Mozilla / 5.0 (X11; U; Linux i686; de-DE; rv: 1.7.5) “
The individual parameters explained:
meaning
Example value
Explanation
IP address
183.121.143.32
The IP address of the requesting host
Unoccupied
–
RFC-1413 identity not determined by default
Who?
–
Reveals the user name if HTTP authentication has taken place; otherwise remains free as in this case
When?
[18 / Mar / 2003: 08: 04: 22 +0200]
Time stamp consisting of date, time and time shift information
What?
“GET /images/logo.jpg HTTP / 1.1”
The event that occurred, in this case the request for an image via HTTP
OK
200
Confirmation of the successful request (HTTP status code 200)
How much?
512
If given: amount of data transferred in bytes
Where from?
“http://www.wikipedia.org/”
Web address from which the data is requested
By which?
“Mozilla / 5.0 (X11; U; Linux i686; de-DE; rv: 1.7.5)”
Technical information about the client: browser, operating system, kernel, user interface, voice output, version
In order to evaluate the flood of information, tools such as
Webalizer
or
W3 Statistics were
developed that convert the data collected into meaningful statistics, tables, and graphics. These can be used to derive trends about the growth of the website, the user-friendliness of the individual pages, or relevant keywords and topics.
Even if the webserver log file analysis is still practiced, it has largely been replaced by newer methods of web analysis such as cookies or page tagging. The reasons for this lie on the one hand in the high susceptibility to the error of the log file analysis when assigning sessions, and on the other hand in the fact that website operators often cannot even access the log file of the webserver. For this, all error messages are registered immediately. In addition, the data obtained from a log file analysis remains with the company.
Use of log files for SEO
For SEOs, log files provide important clues about the origin of visitors and visitor behavior. This information can provide important clues for the optimization of a website. In addition, log files can be used as control files to check the correct functioning of analysis tools such as Google Analytics. In addition, server errors or crashes can be better understood with the help of log files. Against the background that the accessibility of a website or its sub-pages is relevant for the assessment of the project by the search engine robots, log files play an important role in error analysis. At the same time,
the usability of a website
with the help of log file analysis can also be interpreted.
Log Files contains the all data for log file analysis. Both of these terms are related to each other. Without a log file analysis, an SEO can’t understand how Google thinks about the web site and how Google or other Search Engines interact with the site. To learn more about those, we recommend you to read our Log File Analysis Guideline also.
As Holistic SEOs, we will continue to improve our Log File Guideline.
Author
Recent Posts
Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR
Owner and Founder
at
Holistic SEO & Digital
Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR is the CEO and Founder of Holistic SEO & Digital where he provides SEO Consultancy, Web Development, Data Science, Web Design, and Search Engine Optimization services with strategic leadership for the agency’s SEO Client Projects. Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR performs SEO A/B Tests regularly to understand the Google, Microsoft Bing, and Yandex like search engines’ algorithms, and internal agenda. Koray uses Data Science to understand the custom click curves and baby search engine algorithms’ decision trees. Tuğberk used many websites for writing different SEO Case Studies. He published more than 10 SEO Case Studies with 20+ websites to explain the search engines. Koray Tuğberk started his SEO Career in 2015 in the casino industry and moved into the white-hat SEO industry. Koray worked with more than 700 companies for their SEO Projects since 2015. Koray used SEO to improve the user experience, and conversion rate along with brand awareness of the online businesses from different verticals such as retail, e-commerce, affiliate, and b2b, or b2c websites. He enjoys examining websites, algorithms, and search engines.
Latest posts by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR
(
see all
)
Sliding Window
- August 12, 2024
B2P Marketing: How it Works, Benefits, and Strategies
- April 26, 2024
SEO for Casino Websites: A SEO Case Study for the Bet and Gamble Industry
- February 5, 2024
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
TechSEO
What is a Log File? How to Open a Log File?
by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR
time to read: 5 min
TechSEO
What is the Log File Analysis: Best Practices and …
TechSEO
What are the HTTP Status Codes: Everything You Nee…
0
0
0