Ultimate Strong Verbs to Use when Writing - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
A strong verb is a specific, descriptive, and evocative version of a basic verb that generate a stronger visual and helps to create a mood for the scene or sentence. The technical definition of a strong verb is a verb that goes through a stem modification when it changes tense, such as blow/blew/blown. Strong verbs convey a more precise meaning without the help of modifiers or qualifications. It makes the writing more compact and short and makes the readers more interested. Using strong verbs lessen the usage of adverbs, avoid writing in passive voice, and help to remove wordiness. Readers are more captivated if the writers create content using active verbs since it is more engaging and provides a better experience to the reader. Strong verbs are essential to better writing and creating a more profound impact on the reader. Using a strong verb is able to make the writing stand out and help the readers to know what the writer is trying to imply or describe. It makes the readers imagine what they are reading. Additionally, the verbs affect the SEO and the relevance of the content or the information related to the query. Moreover, strong verbs changes in tenses. Irregular strong verbs change their spelling in the form of past tense and past participle. The spelling does not change, whether for American or British spelling. Most of the strong verbs have different accents depending on the English language; however, their definitions are still the same. Content writers must know how and when to use strong verbs to effectively convey the message to the readers. Furthermore, there are 11 types of verbs, including action verbs, stative verbs, transitive verbs, intransitive verbs, linking verbs, helping verbs, modal verbs, regular verbs, irregular verbs, phrasal verbs, and infinitives. There are more than 200 strong verbs in the English language. Most of the words in the strong verb list are regular and irregular verbs.
Listed below are the ultimate strong verbs to use when writing.
Absorb:
Absorb is a transitive verb. Its definitions are “to take in or soak up something by chemical or physical action,” “to take in and understand the information, idea or experience fully,” “take control of a smaller entity and make it a larger one,” or “take up and reduce the effect or intensity of a sound or an impact,” “to take up the attention of someone or interest greatly.”
Advance:
Advance is a transitive and intransitive verb. Its definitions of advance are “to move forward purposefully” or “to make or cause making progress.” The word indicates “to accelerate or to make earlier, or to raise in rate or rank.”
Advise:
Advise is a transitive and intransitive verb. The definition of advise is “to give someone a recommendation, caution or inform.”
Alter:
Alter is a transitive and intransitive verb. The definitions of the word are “to change or cause in character or composition; make structural changes; or tailor a clothing for a better fit or to conform to fashion.”
Amend:
Amend is a transitive and intransitive verb. The definitions of amend are “to change the words of a text, especially a law or a legal document,” “to reform oneself,” or “to modify for improvement by modification, deletion, or addition.”
Amplify:
Amplify is a transitive and intransitive verb. The definitions of amplify are “to expand something, such as a statement, by the use of detail or illustration or by closer analysis” or “to increase amount, importance, or intensity.”
Attack:
The word “attack” is a transitive and intransitive verb. The definitions of attack are “to set upon or work against forcefully,” “to assail with unfriendly or bitter words,” “to start to affect or to act on injurious,” “to set to work on,” or “to begin to eat eagerly.”
Balloon:
Balloon is a transitive and intransitive verb. The definitions of the balloon are “to swell, puff out, or expand,” “to ascend or travel in or as if in a balloon,” or “to increase or inflate rapidly.”
Bash:
Bash is a transitive and intransitive verb. Bash is “to strike violently, such as hit or smash” or “to attack physically or verbally.”
Batter:
Batter is a transitive and intransitive verb. The definitions of batter are “to beat with successive blows to bruise, shatter, or demolish,” “bombard,” “to coat with a mixture, such as flour and egg, for frying,” “to offensively touch or use force on a person without the person’s consent,” or “to strike something heavily and repeatedly.”
Beam:
Beam is a transitive and intransitive verb. The definitions of the beam are “to transmit data electronically, especially by satellite or wirelessly,” “to emit in beams or as a beam,” “to support with beams,” “to direct to a particular audience,” “have a complexion with a strong bright color,” “experience happiness or an intense emotion,” express with a beaming face or smile,” or “to send out rays of light.”
Beef:
Beef is a transitive and intransitive verb. The definitions of beef are “complaining or grumbling a lot about something or someone,” or “to increase or add substance, strength, or power.” It is commonly used as a verb phrase “beef up.”
Blab:
Blab is a transitive and intransitive verb. The definitions of blab are “to talk idly or thoughtlessly” or “to reveal a secret, especially without reserve or discretion.”
Blast:
Blast is a transitive and intransitive verb. The definitions of the blast are “to use an explosive or shoot,” “to proceed rapidly or aggressively,” “to make a vigorous attack,” or “to play loudly or blare.”
Bolt:
Bolt is a transitive and intransitive verb. The definitions of bolt as an intransitive verb are “to move suddenly, nervously, or start,” “to move or proceed quickly, dash,” “to break away from or oppose one’s precious affiliation,” or “to produce seed prematurely.”
Boost:
Boost is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of boost are “to push or shove up from below,” “to increase or raise,” “to promote the cause or interest,” or “steal or shoplift.”
Brief:
Brief is a transitive verb. The definitions of the brief are “to make an abstract or abridgment of,” “to give final precise instructions to,” “to coach thoroughly,” “to provide important information to,” or “to provide a lawyer the facts of a legal case to take them to court.”
Broadcast:
Broadcast is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of broadcast are “to disperse or distribute seed or something similar over a broad area,” “to make widely known,” “to convey or relay using radio, television, or internet,” or “to speak or perform on a broadcast program.”
Brood:
Brood is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of brood are “to sit on or to incubate eggs,” “to produce by or as if incubation or hatch,” “to think anxiously or grimly about,” or “to sit silently and seriously or meditate.”
Burst:
Burst is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of burst are “to break open, apart, or into pieces, commonly from impact or from pressure from within,” “to provide a way from an excess of emotion,” “to come out or spring suddenly,” or “launch or drop.”
Bus:
Bus is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of the bus are “to travel by a large motor vehicle intended to transport passengers, commonly along a fixed route according to a schedule,” “to transport by bus,” or to remove dirty dishes from.”
Bust:
Bust is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of bust as a transitive verb are “to break or wreck with force,” “break up,” “to ruin financially, or exhaust,” “to give a hard time,” “demote,” “arrest or raid,” “hit or slug,” or “to execute or perform.”
Capture:
Capture is a transitive verb. The definitions of capture are “to take or gain control by force,” “to emphasize, represent, or preserve, in a more or less permanent form,” or “to fascinate and hold the interest of.”
Catch:
Catch is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of catch are “to capture or take especially after chase,” “to find unexpectedly,” “to take or to knot in or as if in a trap,” “to take hold of or seize,” “to grasp hastily or try to grasp,” “to take in or retain,” “to get aboard in time,” “to become affected,” or “to see or watch.”
Charge:
Charge is a transitive and intransitive verb. The definitions of charge are “to ask for payment or to ask payment to a person,” “to give an electric charge to,” “to record an item as an expense debt, obligation or liability,” “to impose a financial burden on,” “to place the guilt or blame,” “to impose a task or responsibility on,” “to command, instruct, or exhort with authority,” “to load or fill,” or “to attack or to bring a weapon into position.”
Chap:
Chap is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of chap are “to open in cracks, slits, or chinks” or “to cause to chap.”
Chip:
Chip is a transitive and intransitive verb. The definitions of chip are “to cut or hew with an edged tool,” “to cut into chips, or break a small piece or fragment from something,” to hit with backspin, usually a return in tennis,” or “to play a chip shot.”
Clasp:
Clasp is a transitive verb. The definitions of clasp are “to secure with or as if with a clasp,” “to enclose and hold with the arms or cuddle,” and “to seize with or as if with the hand or grasp.”
Climb:
Climb is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of the climb are “to go upward with gradual or continuous progress,” “to go upward or raise oneself, especially by grasping or clutching with the hands,” “to go about or down commonly by grasping or holding with hands,” or “to get into or out of clothing commonly with some haste or effort.”
Clutch:
Clutch is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of the clutch are “to grasp or hold with or as if with the hand or claws commonly strongly, tightly, or suddenly” or “to operate an automobile clutch.”
Collide:
Collide is an intransitive verb. The definitions of collide are “to come together with solid or direct impact” and “used of situations in which people or groups disagree or are very different from each other or clash.”
Command:
Command is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of command are “to direct authoritatively or order,” “to exercise a dominating influence over,” or “to order or request to be given.”
Commune:
Commune is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of the commune are “to receive Holy Communion, “to communicate intimately, especially on a spiritual level,” or “talk over or discuss.”
Cower:
Cower is an intransitive verb. The definition of cower is “to lower the head or body or curl up in fear, often while moving backward.”
Crackle:
Crackle is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of crackle are “to make small sharp, sudden, repeated noises,” “to form a network of fine cracks on the surface,” or “to show animation or sparkle.”
Crash:
Crash is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of crash are “to break violently and noisily or smash,” “to damage in landing,” “to go to bed or fall asleep,” “to enter or attend without invitation or without paying,” “to move toward aggressively,” or “to cause to crash, such as in a computer system or program.”
Crave:
Crave is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of crave are “to ask for earnestly: beg or demand,” “to want greatly or need,” “to yearn for,” or “to have a string or inward desire.”
Crush:
Crush is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of crush are “to squeeze or force by pressure to alter or destroy the structure,” “to reduce to particles by pounding or grinding,” “to subdue completely,” “to cause overwhelming emotional pain to someone,” “to experience an intense and passing infatuation on someone,” or “hug or embrace.”
Dangle:
Dangle is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of dangle are “to hang loosely and commonly to be able to sway freely,” “to be a hanger-on or a dependent,” and “to occur in a sentence without having a normally expected syntactic relation to the rest of the sentence.”
Dash:
Dash is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of dash are “to move with sudden speed,” “to break by striking or knocking,” “smash, ruin, or destroy,” “to make ashamed, or “depress or sadden,” “to complete, execute, or finish off hastily,” or “to affect by mixing in something different.”
Demolish:
Demolish is a transitive verb. The definitions of demolish are “to break to pieces, such as smash, tear down, or raze,” “to do away with or destroy,” or “to strip of any pretense of merit or credence.”
Depart:
Depart is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of depart are “to leave or go away,” “die,” or “to turn aside or deviate.”
Deposit:
Deposit is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of deposit are “to place or to safe keep,” “to put in a bank,” “to lay down,” or “to let fall, such as sediment.”
Detect:
Detect is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of detect are “to discover the true character of,” “to discover or determine the existence, presence, or the fact of,” “demodulate,” or “to work as a detective.”
Deviate:
Deviate is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of deviate are “to stray from a standard, principle, or topic,” “to depart from an established course or norm,” and “to cause to turn out of a previous course.”
Devour:
Devour is a transitive verb. The definitions of devour are “to eat up hungrily,” “to use up or destroy as if by eating,” “to prey upon,” or “read something rapidly and eagerly.”
Direct:
Direct is a transitive and an intransitive verb. The definitions of direct are “to cause to turn, move, or point exactly or to follow a straight course,” “to point, extend, or project in a specified line or course,” and “to regulate the activities or course of,” to carry out the organizing, energizing, and supervising of,”

[...truncated...]