Bill Slawski's Life, Legacy and Contribution to the SEO - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
Bill Slawski, the person who educated thousands of search engine optimization experts, and even engineers with his over 2000 articles with millions of words for explaining the complex search engine systems were taken from us on 19th May 2022.
Bill Slawski is a Philosopher of Search, and Search Engines because he wasn’t only explaining search systems, patents, and designs, but he was also questioning them by suggesting better methods. Bill Slawski worked as Director of Search Marketing for Go Fish Digital, and he is the author of SEO by the Sea.
He started his SEO career before Google existed, in the AltaVista era. In fact, he was one of the people who contributed to the naming of SEO. “Search Engine Ranking”, “Search Ranking”, “Search Engine Visibility”, and “Search Visibility Marketing” were used while Bill started SEO as a full-time job.
He was a court clerk in 1996 and spent too much time with patents during his job. He has met with many important people from the SEO industry during this time, such as Loren Baker, founder of Search Engine Journal. And, he encouraged Loren Baker to start the Search Engine Journal, why he is starting the SEO by the Sea, which is the blog that created educated thousands of SEO experts.
Bill Slawski was a patent expert, and business analysis professional. Bill used thousands of search, translation, information retrieval, and user experience-related patents to understand search engines in a comparative way. He was one of the first people who focused on patents to understand search engines’ general direction, and methods. Bill Slawski created an enormous amount of useful information for search engine optimization. For example, he was the first person who mentioned: “entities” and “entity-oriented search” on the open web with Google patents. He focused on every vertical of search with SEO Theories. Thus, SEO Theoretician is a title for Bill Slawski. Bill used SEO Theories to change the perspectives of the Search Engine Optimization experts, like
Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR
. Bill has written and analyzed the search engines from different angles, from storage, computation, ranking, modification of rankings, association, fact extraction, image recognition, classification, speech recognition, summary creation, link text indexing, index partitioning, phrase list creation, tuple and triple creation from entities and attribute values, semantics, natural language processing, natural language understanding, and generation and more. Bill Slawski touched every angle, side, and infrastructure of search engines to understand, evaluate and teach them to the industry.
Bill Slawski started SEO by the Sea in 2005, in the Chesapeake Bay, when he started to write about search engine optimization. Bill has supported the first SEO Community creation process since the beginning of SEO wasn’t organized. SEO is not taught in schools. Thus, the first SEOs were the people who did other things but also loved search engines and internet marketing. Thus, Bill Slawski played a major role in the creation of the main SEO groups, and online publishers like Search Engine Journal. Bill Slawski found the name SEO by the Sea while writing about SEO near the sea in Havre de Grace, Maryland.
Bill Slawski is the author of Search Engine Journal, Search Engine Land, and GoFishDigital. Bill Slawski has written articles on other blogs and SEO information sources and published more than 2000 articles with more than one million words in total. He started to write about search engine patents in 2005. He was a guest on many SEO Podcasts like Kalicube Tuesdays, Edge of the Web, SEMrush De, Rankranger, SEO Conspiracy, and more. Bill Slawski
Bill Slawski was a kind SEO. Bill Slawski educated many industry leaders. Koray Tugberk GUBUR stated in an interview with Reboot that Bill Slawski knew about the Google Updates even before it happened. Bill Slawski found many search engine optimization concepts, and their explanations, first. Thus, Bill is called an SEO Pioneer. Bill Slawski found “OneBox” results, their definitions, Google Panda Update Patents, Google Penguin Update Patents, Google Quality Signals, Page Segmentation patents, Google Site Search Query Signals, Google Query Refinement, and Rewriting Signals and Methodologies for the first time. Bill Slawski is the first person who understands that video content will be the future of the search and marketing industry. Bill Slawski stated that the Google Video will be too important, and its equivalent YouTube, suppressed the Google search engine from many aspects by leveraging the video content.
Bill Slawski has touched on many areas of internet marketing. From digital music marketing to local brand creation. Bill Slawski helped many SEOs in overcoming many problems related to search engine understanding. Search Engine Understanding involves understanding how a search engine makes its decisions based on decision trees. Bill Slawski explained multiple levels of decision trees for search engines.
Bill Slawski has created an enormous search engine optimization legacy and tradition for academic search engine optimization experts. Bill explained Google inventions as an Outsider, but better than insider Googlers. Bill Slawski is respected by the SEO Community and Industry for being a pioneer, innovator, and educator.
Bill Slawski was a kind person who helped people. He lived his entire life in the USA, mainly in Carlsbad, California. Bill loved flowers, sunsets, and walking on the beach, watching the sea. He had a diligent personality and enjoyed helping others. Bill always answered the messages, questions, and wishes from the community. He was always mentioned with respect by the SEO and Internet Marketing community. Bill Slawski created many visionary changes, and he convinced many SEOs to use search patents for their own careers. In fact, he even changed how SEO is done. Bill Slawski has been respected in the international SEO community, including in French, Spanish, German, and English-speaking countries. Thus, finding a good mention of Bill Slawski’s name with positive sentiments is not hard in any language.
Tribute to the Bill Slawski
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What are the thoughts, feelings, and words about Bill Slawski?
2.
Why is Bill Slawski Charles Darwin of SEO?
3.
Why is Bill Slawski a Philosopher of Search?
3.1.
How did Bill Slawski start the Disciplined and Structured Mindset for SEO?
3.2.
Why was Bill Slawski a threat to the Commercial Search Engine Companies?
3.3.
Why did Holistic SEO take Bill Slawski as a Thought Leader?
3.4.
What to learn from Bill Slawski’s Life?
4.
How did Bill Slawski affect the Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR?
What are the thoughts, feelings, and words about Bill Slawski?
The section “thoughts, feelings, and words about Bill Slawski” contains his personal feelings, about Bill Slawski to explain his value, affect, and contribution to the search community.
Bill Slawski was someone who treated everyone with kindness, even those who were rude to him. When I learned that his health was deteriorating, I started asking him every day how he was doing. Once, I was afraid he’d say don’t ask anymore, but each time he kindly explained his situation. Even when I asked him a small question, he had the energy to sit for hours and connect a patent that Google received in 2001 to an invention today. Sometimes I would ask him how he remembers them, and he would say to me that I don’t remember, I have internalized them now.
I always thank Bill Slawski for every SEO Case Study I publish, because without him, I wouldn’t have written an SEO Case Study even once. For me, he was the Charles Darwin of SEO. Charles Darwin showed people the reality of another possibility hundreds of years ago, he was the first to dare to say, research, and write. Bill Slawski was more knowledgeable than any of the Google engineers and executives. Many things that seemed algorithmic had been obvious to him years ago. Without Bill Slawski, I wouldn’t have believed in Google’s patents or Google’s research papers. He created a new way of thinking for search engine optimization. Google has always tried and tried to hide what it’s doing, what it will do, or how it will do it. But, while Bill Slawski is writing all the search patents, it wasn’t that easy to hide the agenda of the search engine. Thus, I always thought that Bill Slawski was a problem for Google, and that’s why they didn’t touch him on Twitter, or other places because none of the Googlers have the same amount of search engine understanding talents. He was more Googler than Googlers without being a member of Google. The search engines always try to hide their own algorithms to prevent the “gaming of the system”, and the patent languages involve legal language. Thus, understanding the search engines via patents is not easy, but when someone reads all the patents and puts them into order by explaining all the connections, and external third-party sources, logically, an important amount of people can understand the search engines. And, if they can understand search engines, it means that they can optimize for the better. Bill Slawski has conceptualized the entire SEO from the ground, even if most SEOs are not aware of even the 95% of these concepts, for the ones who can read from 4 to 6 hours a day. Bill Slawski created the best possible resources.
For example, the Topical Authority Concept comes from Bill Slawski’s articles. And, when I use the Importance of Topical Authority SEO case study which changed the state of the SEO and revolutionized the understanding community for semantic SEO suddenly, has been written thanks to Bill Slawski. That’s why, in the article, I thanked Bill Slawski for putting together all these resources for us. Bill Slawski has seen the “Complex Adaptive Systems” of search engines from multiple angles and helped many SEOs to understand the situation of the SERP that can be caused by a few changed web pages 6 months ago. He explained how search engines give decisions based on facts, authority, and web entities. Since understanding the patents was not easy, Bill Slawski explained things, making them easier to digest. But, since most SEOs do not read enough levels, only a few people could explain, understand, internalize and implement these things. And, only a few of them explained how these things worked. Thus, Bill and I had a special connection. I always thought of myself as a student of Bill Slawski. He was my mentor. He was one of the three people that I have put his name on to my website. Furthermore, he has given the quote below.
“Understand your audiences and who they provide goods and services. The better you understand what your customers are doing (interview their customer service and salespeople), that can help set you up for success. Know the words that your customers will search with to find your pages, and expect to see on your pages.”
Bill Slawski
And, he was the first person that I asked for a quote. It was before I launched holisticseo.digital.
Bill Slawski closed the gap between search engine engineers and search engine optimization experts. Martin Splitt tries to close the gap between developers and search engine optimization experts. Bill had a more useful and harder role than Martin. Bill Slawski’s articles were found to live in my SEO Case Studies, and many people started to read the patents by saying that the “Bill is apparently right”. A legal paper is not easy to digest or read and understand. And, to be able to have a solid background for understanding the patents, and creating SEO Methodologies from them, a person needs to read them for many years and for hours a day. Thus, when I implemented his conceptualization of SEO, and terminology for SEO elements, people found a new gateway to the actual heart of information sources for search engines. And, still, I know that it is not clear enough, because to prove a single point, still we need to write more than 30,000 words. That’s why my SEO Case Studies are too long.
A quote from David Harry for Bill Slawski.
Why is Bill Slawski Charles Darwin of SEO?
Bill Slawski is called Charles Darwin of SEO because he is the first one who dares examine search engine patents with 100% detail and dedication. Many SEO Experts have written, told, and mentioned that they made millions of dollars thanks to the articles of Bill Slawski. Bill has uncovered the algorithms of search engines, and he did in a way that people who can endure hours of reading can understand. He created a bridge between search engines, and the SEOs to explain how they work, worked and can work, will work.
Bill Slawski is similar to Charles Darwin since he created an entirely new possibility of search engine understanding, and structured his thoughts and research in a way that even the search engines can’t deny. Thus, despite all the articles that Bill Slawski has written, even once, Google couldn’t say that it is not the case. Even if search engines deny what Bill says, we all know how Charles Darwin won his arguments after 2 centuries.
Why is Bill Slawski a Philosopher of Search?
Bill Slawski is a philosopher of search, because he improved search system understanding, examined the inventions, analyzed the search businesses, and created new channels to understand the search engines. Bill Slawski has seen 20 years of search improvements before any improvement happened. He knew which inventors would write what based on their previous inventions and knowledge. Bill Slawski wasn’t just writing or explaining the patents. He was explaining where the search should go, and why it should go. And, search engines even followed his insights, research, and foresight.
Bill Slawski has created different types of information repositories to understand the concepts of search engines. He created different search verticals, and concept groups in a conn

[...truncated...]
