414 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The 414 HTTP Status Code means that the request’s URI is too long, which indicates that the response Status Code indicates that a larger URI is required by the client, and the server is unwilling to interpret it. There are a few unusual circumstances under which this could occur.  When a client incorrectly converts a POST request to a GET request with a lengthy query, when the client has become trapped in a redirection loop (for instance, a redirected URI prefix that refers to its own suffix), or when a client is attacking the server in an attempt to find and exploit any security bugs. The difference between HTTP Status Codes 400 and 414 is that the 400 HTTP Status Codes indicate that the server was unable to understand the request due to improper syntax, whereas the 414 HTTP Status Code indicates that the client’s URI request is longer than the server can interpret.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does 414 HTTP Status Code Mean?
1.1.
How to Use 414 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
2.
How to Check 414 HTTP Status Code?
2.1.
Which HTTP Method is used with 414 HTTP Status Code?
3.
What are the Related HTTP Response Headers with 414 HTTP Status Code?
4.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of 414 HTTP Status Code?
5.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to 414 HTTP Status Code?
What does 414 HTTP Status Code Mean?
The 414 HTTP Status Code indicates that the server refuses to service the request because the request-target is too long for the server to interpret. When the server is under attacked by a client seeking to exploit potential security weaknesses, or when a client incorrectly converts a POST request to a GET request with extended query information, this unusual circumstance can occur. A 414 response can be cached unless the method specification or explicit cache controls explicitly state otherwise.
How to Use 414 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
To use the 414 HTTP Status Code is when an incorrect conversion from POST to GET request with extensive query information can result in an error in the client’s web server, when the client is in a loop of redirection, for example, a redirected URI prefix that refers to a suffix of itself, it is possible for the client to get stuck, or or when a client attempts to exploit a server’s security flaws.
How to Check 414 HTTP Status Code?
To check the 414 HTTP Status Code use the web browser network tab and developer tools for every resource that the client uses.
Which HTTP Method is used with 414 HTTP Status Code?
The HTTP methods that are used with the 414 HTTP Status Codes are listed below.
POST HTTP Method: The POST HTTP method is used in the 414 HTTP Response Status Code. The POST method sends an entity to the specified resource, frequently resulting in a change in the server’s state or side effects.
GET HTTP Method: The GET HTTP method is used in the 414 HTTP Response Status Code. The GET method is used to obtain a representation of the requested resource. Requests made with the GET method should be limited to data retrieval.
What are the Related HTTP Response Headers with 414 HTTP Status Code?
The related HTTP Response Headers with 414 HTTP Status Code are listed below.
Content-Negotiation HTTP Header: The 414 HTTP Status Code is related with the
Content-Negotiation
which is the technique for supplying multiple representations of a resource to the same URI in order to assist the user agent in determining which representation is most appropriate for the user.
URI: The 414 HTTP Status Code is related to the URI which is a string containing a resource’s identifier.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of 414 HTTP Status Code?
The 414 HTTP Status Code is compatible with all browsers including Chrome, Edge, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Opera, Safari, and Webview Android.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to 414 HTTP Status Code?
There are other similar HTTP Status Codes to the 414 HTTP Status Code. The following are listed below.
411 Length Required HTTP Status Code: The
411  HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 414 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 411 HTTP Status Code indicates that the server refused the request due to the absence of the Content-Length header information, which the server requires.
412 Precondition Failed HTTP Status Code: The
412 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 414 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 412 HTTP Status Code indicates that the server does not meet the preconditions specified in the client’s headers.
413 Payload Too Large HTTP Status Code: The 413 HTTP Status Code is similar to the 414 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The
413 HTTP Status Code
indicates that The size of the request entity exceeds the server’s limits. Retry-After header fields can be returned even if the server closes the connection.
415 Unsupported Media Type HTTP Status Code: The
415 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 414 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 415 HTTP Status Code indicates that the server does not support the requested media format, hence it rejects the request.
Author
Recent Posts
Follow SEO
Holistic SEO
SEO Research Department
at
Holistic SEO & Digital
Holistic SEO & Digital has been built by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR. Holistic SEO is the process of developing integrated digital marketing projects with every aspect including Coding, Natural Language Processing, Data Science, Page Speed, Digital Analytics, Content Marketing, Technical SEO, and Branding. Structured, Semantic Search Engine improves its ability to detect the real-world entities, today. Having a simple website is not enough anymore. To show that your brand is authoritative, trustworthy, and expert on its own niche, you need entity-based Search Engine Optimization Projects. Holistic SEO & Digital's main focus is on improving the brand's organic visibility and growth potential.
Follow SEO
Latest posts by Holistic SEO
(
see all
)
48 Online Shopping and Consumer Behavior Statistics, Facts and Trends
- August 22, 2023
B2B Marketing Statistics
- August 22, 2023
38 Podcast Statistics, Facts, and Trends
- August 22, 2023
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
TechSEO
414 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods
by Holistic SEO
time to read: 3 min
TechSEO
415 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
TechSEO
420 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
0
0
0