Meter or Metre: Which one is Correct? - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The words “meter” and “metre” are common English words used by many English learners around the world. These words hold the same meaning, which is generally defined as a unit of measurement. “Meter” is primarily used in the American English language, while “metre” is primarily used in British English. “Meter” and “metre” share the same pronunciation. However, these words have a slight difference in accent according to the language that the audience has. The word “meter” is articulated through the phonetic sound as/ˈmiː.t̬ɚ/ or in simpler illustration, “mee”+” ter”. The word “metre” is articulated with the phonetic sound as /ˈmiː.tər/ or “mee”+”tuh” in a simpler illustration. The words “meter” and “metre” are both pronounced with a defined stress in the first syllable. The distinction in accent comes in the 2nd syllable. The second syllable in the word “Meter” is properly articulated as /tr/ as in “later” while the 2nd syllable in the word “metre” is articulated in a slang sound /tuh/ as in “utah”. The words “meter” and “metre” are both associated with measurement. However, there are minimal distinctions in the specificity of their definition depending on the type of learners the audience is composed of. The word “meter” is a common word  to refer to all standard usages such as the measurement, the rhythmic structure of the poem, and measuring instruments, in  American English.  The term “metre” is the typical word for the unit of measurement and for poetic concepts. However, the word “meter” is still considered a correct spelling for British English learners when referring to names of measuring paraphernalia like gas meters, odometers, speedometers, and many more.
Listed below are some of the sentence examples for the word “meter.”
“If the establishment is not substantially nonflammable it must be located at least one
meter
from any potential conductor.” The word “meter” is used as a noun in the sentence. It indicates a suggested measurement of distance from a certain establishment to another to avoid fire incidents. The word “meter” is properly used in the sentence because it expresses the right thought and is used in the right grammar form.
“The calibration of
ammeters
is best regulated by means of a series of standard low resistances and of a
potentiometer
.”
Listed below are the sentence examples of the word “metre.”
“He nailed a world record in the 100
metre
sprint at the British national championships.”
“The Eiffel tower in Paris is 330
metres
tall and considered the tallest building structure in the city.” The sentences illustrated above are a representation of the word “metre” as used in a British English viewpoint.
The first two sentences are intended to illustrate the usage of the word “meter” in American English conversations. The first sentence example denotes a measurement of distance from a certain building to another. The second sentence example, on the other hand, refers to a specific measuring tool, ammeter, which is used to calculate current in amperes. The last two sentences mentioned previously are intended to illustrate the usage of the word “metre” in British English conversations. The 3rd sentence example expresses an idea that the subject has won in a British sprint competition whose distance is a hundred meters. The last sentence example talks about the famous historical structure in Paris whose length is about 330 meters.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What is the Difference between “Meter” and “Metre”?
1.1.
Do “Meter” and “Metre” mean the same thing?
2.
How to Spell “Meter” and “Metre”?
2.1.
How to Use “Meter” in American English?
2.2.
How to Use “Metre” in British English?
3.
What are the Common Phrase Combinations of “Meter” and “Metre”?
3.1.
What are the Example Uses of “Meter” in American Publications?
3.2.
What are the Example Uses of “Metre” in British Publications?
4.
How to Use “Meter” or “Metre” for Content Marketing?
4.1.
How does Accent Differences Affect Search Engine Optimization?
5.
What are the Similar Accent Differences such as “Meter and Metre”?
What is the Difference between “Meter” and “Metre”?
The difference between the words “meter” and “metre” is observed primarily in terms of their spelling. The obvious alteration of the placement of letter ‘e’ in both words indicate the variations of the words “meter” and “metre”. “Meter” is a preferred word by American English learners to indicate three purposes namely, the unit of measurement, the rhythmic structure of a poem, and the measuring instruments. The word “metre” on the other hand, is preferred by other English learners, especially the British people, for  two uses such as for unit of measurement and for poetic concepts. The word “meter” is used by both the American and the British English learners when referring to measuring instruments. The distinction of these words in spelling indicates that the words “meter” and “metre” have different accents. “Meter” is articulated as “mee” +”ter” while “metre” is pronounced as “mee”+”tuh”. The stress in pronunciation for both words are in the first syllable as “mee”. There is a need for a slang articulation in the 2nd syllable of the word “metre” to denote that it is a British English term.
Do “Meter” and “Metre” mean the same thing?
Yes, the words “meter” and “metre” mean the same thing.  They are both defined as a unit of measurement which is equivalent to a thousand centimeters, in general. There is just a minimal variation in the relevance of the words when delivered to specific audiences like American English learners versus British English learners. American English learners enforce the word “meter” in their sentences and conversations when referring to a unit of measurement. It is used to denote the positioning of strong and weak stresses that produce the rhythm in lines of poetry, at the same time. Another purpose of the word “meter” is to indicate the instruments used for measurements and calculations such as speedometer and ammeter. British English learners utilize the word “metre” in their conversations and sentences when referring to a unit of measurement. It is sometimes used by British English learners to express poetic rhythm and stress.  However, the word “meter” is utilized by  British English learners as well, when referring to measuring instruments.
How to Spell “Meter” and “Metre”?
The words “meter” and “metre” are spelled almost the same.The sole factor that creates variation from these words in terms of pelling is the placement of letters ‘e’ and ‘r’.  “Metre” is spelled out as “m-e-t-e-r” as in “center” and “liter”. The term “metre” is spelled out as “m-e-t-r-e” just like centre and litre. Words ending in ‘er’ are normally associated with the American English language while words which end in letters ‘re’ are commonly connected with the British English language. These differences in spelling produce a variation in the way that these words are uttered. American English terms are known for having precise and defined articulation of words. The word “meter” is pronounced with a primary stress in the first syllable /mi/ or “mee” and a defined articulation in the 2nd syllable /t̬ɚ/ or “ter”. British English terms, on the other hand, are popular for having a peculiar pronunciation or exaggerated accent for  most English words that they use on a day to day basis. It is a standard which dated from centuries back during the early emergence of the English language. The word “metre” is pronounced with a primary stress in the first syllable /mi/ or “mee” just like the word “meter”. However, the variation comes in the second syllable. The last syllable of the word “metre”,  /tuh/,  is uttered in a slang way instead of articulating it in a defined manner. It is pronounced as /ˈmiː.tər/ just like the word “Utah”.
How to Use “Meter” in American English?
The word “meter” is used in American English by having American English learners as the audience in the first place. American English learners apply the word “meter” when referring to three things such as, a unit of measurement, a rhythm in poetry, and measuring instruments. The correct form of use for the word “meter” is as a noun, a transitive verb, and a noun combining word. The word “meter” is applied in various areas in society like in business, education, sales and marketing, technology and many more which makes it a word for daily life. “Meter” is first introduced as a unit of length in the metric system. It is regarded in the International Systems of Units or SI as being equivalent to approximately 39.31 inches. The term ”meter” came from the Middle English word “metre” which rooted from an Anglo-French word
metrum
and was borrowed from a Greek word
métron
meaning measure or space measured.
Listed below are some of the sentence examples for the usage of the word “meter” in American English.
“The taxi driver left the
meter
running while I ran in to pick up my belongings from my friend’s house”. The word “meter” is used in the sentence in a noun form. It refers to a certain device used to calculate a passenger’s fare according to the time he/she is inside a vehicle like a taxi. The sentence denotes that the driver of the vehicle has intentionally left the calculating device open even when the passenger is out for a short moment to  pick certain things.
“A woman comes to read the gas
meters
one at a time, to find out how much gas they have used in the delivery”. “Meter” is used in the sentence to denote a measuring instrument for gas. It is applied in the sentence as a noun. Notice that another noun is paired up with the word “meter” which makes them a phrase combination. The sentence actually implies that a female staff from a certain delivery company is checking the measuring devices to monitor the amount of gas consumed by the vehicles.
“She surpassed all his contenders after winning the 3000
meter
race held last week”. The term “meter” is used as a noun in the sentence as well. It refers to the unit of measurement in terms of distance which is equivalent to 10000 centimeters by default. The sentence implies that a certain athlete is able to exceed her competitors during a running contest whose distance is 3000 meters.
“Many water companies are planning to
meter
water consumption during the Christmas season”. The word “meter” is used differently in the sentence above. It is used as a verb rather than as a noun. It means to supply in a measured or regulated amount. It is sometimes used to denote measuring by means of a meter. The sentence expresses an idea that establishments offering water supply are planning to regulate the amount of water that they provide to their consumers for the holiday season.
How to Use “Metre” in British English?
The word “metre” is used in British English by taking into consideration the type of audience a speaker or writer has. “Metre” is mostly preferred and commonly used by British English learners. It is actually the British spelling of the term “meter”. It is applied in sentences when referring to the unit of measurement and rhythms of stresses in poetry. The correct form of use for the word “metre” is as a noun, either as a countable noun or as a variable noun. It is a  word for daily life because it has been a common word for most people especially in the British countries. It is used in various areas in society such as schools, offices, marketplaces, sales companies, healthcare institutions and even in simple households. The etymology of the word “metre” started from the word
metron
which means measure. It was further developed in Latin as
metrum
.
Listed below are some of the sentence examples for the word “metre” in British English.
“The Australian Building Code requires balconies and barriers in household structure to be a
metre
high to avoid serious fall and lessen the occurrence of household injuries in the country”. The word “metre” is used in the sentence as a noun. It refers to a unit of measurement which is equivalent to a thousand centimeters. The phrase “a metre” simply means one meter. The sentence denotes that a certain law in Australia requires all household structures to have balconies and barriers which are 1 meter high for safety purposes.
”Many poems in Europe are written in traditional
metres
and rhyme schemes exhibiting a historical feel for most people who are inclined to arts and poetry”. The word “metre” is used in the sentence in a noun form. It refers to the placement of stresses in poetric rhythm. The sentence implies that a lot of poems written in Europe contain traditional placement of stresses in rhythm which reminds British audiences of their country’s historical preference  in terms of arts and poetry.
“The Standedge Tunnel in the United Kingdom is one of the longest tunnels in the country measuring 4,979
metres
long and 194
metres
deep”. The sentence illustrates how to use the word “metre” as a unit of measurement in the British English language. It expresses an idea that one of the longest tunnels in the UK which is the Standedge tunnel is quite long and deep. The word “metre” is used as a unit of measurement in the sentence in a noun form.
“The students must each write a poem in strict alliterative
metre
which needs to be submitted every twice a week”. The word “metre” is used as a noun in the sentence as well. It pertains to the positioning of stress in the rhythm of poems. The sentence implies that the students from a certain academy must create poems whose stresses and rhythm follow the format set in the alliterative metre.
What are the Common Phrase Combinations of “Meter” and “Metre”?
Listed below is a table showing the common phrase combinations of the words “meter” and “metre”.
Listed below are the common phrase combinations of “humor” and “humour.”
English Word
Definition
Phrase Combination
Example Sentences of Phrase Combination
Meter
The word “
meter
” in American English
is used in th

[...truncated...]
