Simile vs. Metaphor: Difference Between Them and Meaning - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
“Simile” and “metaphor” are both parts of the figures of speech. “Similes” and “metaphors” are used to help get messages across in a way that isn’t as technical. Moreover, “similes” and “metaphors” are used to get a point across, whether it’s in rhetoric or poetry. Figures of speech like “similes” and “metaphors” are used to make an idea more vivid or to make a picture come to mind. However, questions such as “What are the key differences between simile and metaphor?” prompt, despite sharing the same purpose of comparing two different things.
Below is a list that shows the key differences between simile and metaphor.
“Simile” is a figure of speech used to add emphasis or vividness to descriptions by comparing one thing with another of a different kind.
“Simile” is a term that describes something by making a contrast.
“Simile” uses the words “like” or “as” to compare things.
“Similes” are used to describe something as being similar to another thing.
“Metaphor” is a figure of speech that uses non-literal language to describe an item or action in order to clarify a point or draw a comparison.
“Metaphor” is for the sake of rhetorical effect. It refers to one thing while simultaneously addressing another.
“Metaphors,” offer clarification or reveal unnoticed connections between two dissimilar ideas.
People frequently get “simile” and “metaphor” confused with one another. The main reason is that both terms are part of figures of speech that have the same function of contrasting two distinct things. “Similes” are used to describe something in terms of how it is comparable to another thing, whereas “metaphors” are used to describe something as being something else. The usage of the comparison words “like” and “as” is the only thing that differentiates a “simile” from a “metaphor.” If a speaker uses a “simile” or a “metaphor” in a confusing way, the meaning is different from what the speaker meant to say. A message that uses a “simile” or “metaphor” and is sent by confused user results in an inaccurate meaning of what the message originally meant. Confusion between the two terms, and an understanding of their respective meanings, are crucial in order to avoid complicated exchanges. Clear communication results from having a good understanding of the difference between “simile” and “metaphor.”
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does “Simile” mean?
1.1.
What are the types of “Similes”?
1.2.
How to use the “Simile” word in sentences properly?
2.
What does “Metaphor” mean?
2.1.
What are the types of “Metaphors”?
2.2.
How to use “Metaphor” in English Sentences properly?
3.
How to differentiate “Simile” and “Metaphor” during speaking?
3.1.
Do people confuse the use of “Simile” and “Metaphor” while speaking?
4.
What is the difference between “Metaphor” and “Simile” when used in comparison?
4.1.
Is there the same word used in sentences when using a “Simile” and “Metaphor”?
5.
How to remember the difference between “Simile” and “Metaphor”?
6.
When to use “Simile” or “Metaphor”?
7.
What are the example sentences for “Metaphor” and “Simile” differences?
8.
Why should Content Writers know the difference between “Simile” and “Metaphor”?
8.1.
Does Grammar Errors affect Search Engine Optimization Performance?
8.2.
Is using “Metaphor”, or “Simile” wrong has a harmful effect on E-A-T?
What does “Simile” mean?
A “simile” is a noun. It is part of a figure of speech used to add emphasis or vividness to descriptions by comparing one thing with another of a different kind. A “simile” is a term that describes something by making a contrast. According to the Merriam-Webster Dictionary, a “simile” is a figure of speech comparing two unlike things that are often introduced by ‘like’ or ‘as’. Usually, the words “like” or “as” are used when employing a “simile.” The word “simile” came from the Latin word “similis” which translates to “like.” The first known use of “simile” was during the 15th century. A “simile” is used to assist in describing one thing by comparing it to another that seems unrelated at first. “Similes” are effective analogies that stimulate the mind. “Similes” help writers create vivid images, arouse feelings or memories, and clarify or further explain concepts through comparison. “Similes” assist readers in relating to the material and gaining a deeper grasp of the subject. An example of a “simile” is “The twins fight like cats and dogs.” The example describes how the twins are compared to the common characteristic of quarreling cats and dogs. Another example of a “simile” is, “Rico is as tall as a tower.” The example shows that Rico’s height was compared to the height of a tower, implying that Rico is tall.
What are the types of “Similes”?
There are two types of “similes.” The first type is those that use ‘as’ in comparing two things. For instance, “Roldan is as white as a ghost.” The examples show that the phrase “as white as a ghost” is a simile. Roldan’s characteristic of being white is compared to the perceived whiteness of a ghost. The two things being compared in the sentence were Roldan’s skin color and the color of a ghost. The second type of “simile” is those that use ‘like’ in comparing two things. An example of using ‘like’ includes, “Joseph walks like a snail.” The example describes that the phrase “walks like a snail” is a “simile.” Joseph’s walking was compared to a snail, which is understood as being slow. The two things in comparison were Joseph’s walking and the snail’s slow movement when crawling. Two things are compared to each other when employing a simile. Thus, when using a simile, make sure to have a thing that is compared to another that shares the same characteristics.
How to use the “Simile” word in sentences properly?
Listed below are the tips for writing a simile properly and using a simile in a sentence.
Think of one thing and what to describe it:
The first step in composing a simile and using a simile properly in a sentence is to think of a subject. Writers must follow the step of choosing and selecting the object, character or setting that a writer wanted to write about and describe. Selecting the elements to be subjected to for comparison comes first.
Think of a second thing that shares the same or similar characteristics as the first thing:
The second step is to think of the second thing that shares the same quality or characteristic as the first thing that is subjected to comparison. However, the second step does not necessarily the same thing as the first because a “simile” is used to describe the subject by comparing the subject to a different thing. A writer needs to remember that the first and the second things must have something in common.
Combine the two by following the format “X is like Y:”
The next step is to combine by saying that the first thing is “like” the second thing. The “simile” must look like the first thing is as whatever as the second thing if the writer wanted to focus on a certain property in some cases.
Read and review the sentence:
The last step is to read and review the “simile” if the structure is correct and coherent. Grammar and spelling must be checked.
The figure of speech known as a “simile” is utilized in situations in which two distinct entities are being compared to one another. It compared two things by attributing a quality of one to the other of the two things being compared. The words “like” and “as” are used to form “similes” in the context of comparison. “Similes” are the simplest to create and use in a sentence since the simplest form of comparison is “X like Y.” On the other hand, “metaphors” are figures of speech that employ vocabulary that is not literal to characterize an object or event in order to illustrate a point or draw a comparison. “Metaphors” are used to compare two things that are very different from one another. “Metaphors” are useful because they either clarify a situation or bring to light previously hidden connections between two seemingly unrelated ideas.
What does “Metaphor” mean?
A “metaphor” is a figure of speech that uses non-literal language to describe an item or action in order to clarify a point or draw a comparison. It is being used for the sake of rhetorical effect, referring to one thing while simultaneously addressing another. “Metaphors” offer clarification or reveal unnoticed connections between two dissimilar ideas. According to the Merriam-Webster Dictionary, “metaphor” is part of the figure of speech. It is a word or phrase literally to indicate one kind of purpose or idea is used in place of another to suggest similarity or resemblance between them.” “Metaphor” comes from the 16th century Old French word “metaphore,” which comes from the Latin “metaphora,” which translates to “carrying over.” The first known use of the term “metaphor” was during the late 15th century. “Metaphor” is used to directly compare two dissimilar items in order to assign the first a certain quality. An example of a “metaphor” is “The manager is an early bird.” The example shows that the manager is compared to an early bird. The two concepts are not alike, but share something in common. The manager was attributed to being an early bird, which implies that the manager comes to the office early. Another example of a “metaphor” is, “A call center agent is a night owl.” The sentence phrase means that a call center agent is someone who is active at night and takes a rest in the morning. The quality of an owl as a nocturnal bird is attributed to a BPO employee.
What are the types of “Metaphors”?
The types of “metaphors” are “standard or absolute,” “implied,” “conceptual,” “dead,” “mixed,” and “extended (or sustained).” First, “standard or absolute metaphor” compares two things that have no obvious connection or relationship in making a point. A “standard or absolute metaphor” states that one concept or idea is another, making a direct comparison as if the concepts are synonymous with each other. An example of it is “Gerald is the apple in the pie.” The example shows that Gerald is directly referred to as the apple in the pie. Gerald is not an apple, much less a pie. Thus, a reader has to decipher that Gerald is important to the writer’s life as an apple is in a pie. Second, “implied metaphors” connect two unrelated objects without specifically naming one of them. For example, “The boss barked a warning at the employee.” The example of “implied metaphor” associates the boss with a dog, without implicitly mentioning the vehicle of the “metaphor.” Only when the reader is familiar enough with the object does the writer imply The example describes how a dog is known for barking, and the “implied metaphors” make sense. Third, “conceptual metaphors” explain one idea or abstract concept in terms of another. An example of it is “Time is gold.” The example indicates that both “time” and “gold” are conceptual objects. Fourth, “dead metaphors,” as the name implies, have lost potency and strength because of being overused or as a result of repetition. For instance, “You light up my world.” The example has been around for a long time, and it no longer has the same strength and value as a “metaphor.” Fifth, “mixed metaphors” are a synthesis of two or more “metaphors” that occasionally has an absurd result. For example, “The promotion has allowed the employee to spread her wings and really blossom.” The example shows that a comparison was made between both a bird and a flower to a promoted employee. The “metaphor” creates an odd combination that manages to get the point across, yet must be avoided. “Mixed metaphors” are helpful, but if not, “mixed metaphors” come off as awkward or even contradict what the writer is trying to say when attempting to be hilarious. Lastly, “extended (or sustained) metaphors” elaborate on similarity using descriptive language. “Extended (or sustained) metaphors” are the types of “metaphors” that appear in every stanza, line, paragraph, and section of a poem or blog post. An example of it is “Grace started by taking a snackable piece from the cheese block.” The “cheese block” in the sentence pertains to the overwhelming project that is taken on Grace one step at a time. “Grace finished the tasks and managed the project well by poking holes in the cheese chunk continuously throughout the scheduled work day.” is another example in the context of finishing a project. “Poking holes in the cheese chunk” refers to the gravity of the task.
How to use “Metaphor” in English Sentences properly?
Listed below are the tips for writing a metaphor properly and using a metaphor in a sentence.
Choose the character, object, or setting:
The first step is to choose the element for comparison. The writer must follow the process of choosing and selecting the object, character, or setting that they wanted to write about. Selecting the elements to be subjected to for comparison comes first. Choosing the element must answer the question, “how one is like the other?”
Focus on the scene that is being described: The second step entails ensuring that the elements chosen from the first step are logical. The process subjects the elements to contrast by answering the question, “how one is unlike the other?” The second step ensures that the elements used in the metaphor are parallel and rational.
Start placing the elements together: The juxtaposition of ideas is the subject of the third step. The method of the third phase implies that the fact of two things used in the comparison is seen or brought closer together, with an opposing effect. The process means that the two things are placed in proximity to one another.
Check for the rationality of the analogy:
The fourth step is doing a check and balance. Good metaphors are those that are coherent. Checking for the rationality of the analogy used is subjecting the writer to double-check the relationship of one element to the other.
Extrapolate and check f

[...truncated...]