What does LOLZ Emote Mean? - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
LOLZ emote is a figure or graphic that depicts an intensely laughing face. LOLZ is used to express a lot of strong and loud laughing emotions openly to the audience. The LOLZ emote is most commonly seen in online game platforms to describe a lot of loud laughter in a quicker and convenient yet effective way. LOLZ must be used in funny and casual situations such as friends having a joke time, family members talking about funny and embarrassing moments, or playing online games. LOLZ must not be used during serious topics such as lectures, educational papers, professional discussions, or even just talking about sad moments, as it is offensive and inappropriate. On the other hand, the text LOLZ is internet slang, which is the plural form of LOL, commonly sent when someone is laughing a lot because of a particular message, photo, or video. It is a 4-letter word used to shorten the message but still be able to convey how funny the situation is.
The difference between LOL and LOLZ is that the “LOL” with “Z” is a plural form. Meanwhile, the distinction between LOLZ and ROFL is that the second one’s acronym is “Rolling On The Floor Laughing” which indicates that ROFL is a more intense way of expressing a funny moment. LOLZ, LOL, and ROFL are all part of internet slang. Internet slang is a language used by internet users across the world to communicate with each other in a faster and more convenient way. Internet slang is not an official language, and it has no rules or structure to follow. An Internet meme, on the other hand, is a set of content that is usually abstract, funny, motivating, and entertaining. An internet meme is spread on any social media platform in the form of pictures, videos, or just simple text. Internet meme uses internet slang to express their meaning to the audience.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
Who found LOLZ Abbreviation?
1.1.
Do People use LOLZ for face-to-face Communication?
1.2.
Is LOLZ only for textual communication?
2.
What do Internet Slang Experts think about LOLZ Abbreviation?
3.
What are the sentence examples with LOLZ?
4.
How does Cambridge Dictionary define LOLZ?
5.
What are the Variants of LOLZ?
5.1.
What are the Derivations of LOLZ?
5.2.
What are the related terms to LOLZ?
5.3.
What are the Foreign Equivalents of LOLZ from other Languages?
6.
How do Content Writers use LOLZ for communicating with Customers?
6.1.
Do Social Media Marketers use LOLZ?
6.2.
Does LOLZ a not serious term for SEO Content?
6.3.
What is the difference between LOLZ and LoL?
6.4.
What is the difference between LOLZ and LULZ?
Who found LOLZ Abbreviation?
There is no recorded founder and first usage of the LOLZ abbreviation as of the present time. The word LOLZ was just created by internet users out of fun and laughter exaggeration. It is a variation of the word LOL which was first used in the 1980s by Wayne Pearson. LOLZ is another variant of LOL, similar to other words such as LOLOLOL and LOLS which have different spelling but almost the same meaning.
Do People use LOLZ for face-to-face Communication?
Yes, people use LOLZ for face-to-face communication. However, LOLZ is more contextual and is more emphasized when used in textual and digital formats. Face-to-face communication is a type of interpersonal communication where both ends are able to see each other and are communicating verbally. Although LOLZ is internet slang and was commonly seen in text, LOLZ is used in face-to-face communication as well. LOL is the word that is the preferred one rather than LOLZ, because LOLZ sounds strange and is more difficult to pronounce.
Is LOLZ only for textual communication?
No, LOLZ is not only for textual communication. Textual communication is a type of communication where the message is being read or viewed. People are now using internet slang including LOLZ in face-to-face communications with other people such as friends and families. However, it cannot be used to express laughter in face-to-face communication unlike on the internet, because the body’s natural response initiates a loud, continuous, and prolonged laugh or grin instead to indicate emotion. Additionally, the efficiency of the word is highly maximized in the form of text.
What do Internet Slang Experts think about LOLZ Abbreviation?
Internet slang experts think about LOLZ abbreviation as another variation of LOL which is in a plural form. According to internet slang experts, LOLZ is a leet and corrupted variant of LOL and is considered as a noun rather than a verb or interjection. LOLZ is an acronym and not an abbreviation, which means that it is pronounced as a word and not letter-by-letter. LOLZ is used to express strong laughter and is more commonly used for casual conversations. LOLZ is prohibited to be used in serious and formal content.
What are the sentence examples with LOLZ?
The word LOLZ is a very common expression on the internet. LOLZ is used to shorten and simplify the text while still being able to indicate intense laughter about a particular topic. People talking online with a funny topic opt to use LOLZ to shorten the message and save time from typing.
Listed below are examples of LOLZ in a sentence. “
“
The dog just ate our last roll of toilet paper, lolz!”
(LOLZ serves as the shortened version to express the intense laughter of the scenario).
“
It’s non-stop lolz with my sisters when we have a girls’ night out!
“(The LOLZ has been able to describe how funny their experience is without having to go excessive with words just to describe how they were able to laugh with each other).
“
My dream is about a man and a kangaroo in a boxing match, lolz!”
(LOLZ serves as the shortened version to express the intense laughter of the scenario).
“
My sister accidentally posted a picture with her ex, lolz!”
(LOLZ is used by the person to conveniently express laughter.)
“
This cat just peed in the toilet instead of the cat litter box, lolz!”
(LOLZ was used to describe briefly the person’s strong laughter about the situation).
“
Lolz, I still remember how my brother cooked cookies, and he forgot to add sugar to the ingredients!”
(LOLZ replaced the traditional “haha” text for a more convenient way of expression).
“
My dog chased the cat because it stole his toy, lolz!”
(LOLZ replaced the traditional “haha” text for a more convenient way of expression).
“
We just watched the film and it was so funny, lolz!”
(The purpose and meaning of LOLZ in the sentence is to describe how the scenes of the film made them laugh so hard).
“
The school bus forgot to pick my brother up, lolz!”
(The LOLZ was used in the sentence to express the funny scenario that happened in a shortened way).
“
The photo you sent to me was so ridiculous, lolz!”
(LOLZ was used to let the receiver of the photo show laughter in a shortened and convenient manner).
“We went to the mall in pajamas and messy hair, lolz.”
(The speaker was able to indicate how funny it is in a shorter way through the use of LOLZ).
“
My brother got scolded by my mom because he woke up very late, lolz.”
(
LOLZ was used to deliver the funny message concisely because without lolz, the sender still have to explain what must be the appropriate expression for that scenario).
“
Anna fell from the stairs, lolz!”
(LOLZ was used by the source of the message to express both laughter and mockery).
“
I enjoyed Mark’s jokes earlier, lolz.”
(
The sentence delivers how the sender of the message enjoyed the jokes told by Mark earlier. It was further elaborated through the help of LOLZ).
“We wanna get drunk and wasted tonight, lolz.”
(LOLZ emphasized the anticipated fun experience).
“
My dad was mad because he caught me still scrolling on my phone at 3 AM, lolz!”
(The person used LOLZ in the sentence to express both embarrassment and laughter).
“
We went to a horror house and the experience was so epic because the figures and effects looked so real, lolz!”
(LOLZ confirmed that the experience was a funny one).
“
You must’ve really thought I would fall for that prank, lolz!”
(The LOLZ in the sentence indicates both sarcasm and laughter as the person outsmarted the people who attempted to do a prank).
“
I can still remember how we throw hate words at each other before but look at us now, we’re best friends, lolz!”
(LOLZ expressed both amusement and laughter).
How does Cambridge Dictionary define LOLZ?
LOLZ is “used as an exclamation, for example on social media and in text messages, when you think something is funny, or you intend it as a joke.” according to Cambridge Dictionary. Cambridge Dictionary defines LOLZ as a word used when a person encounters funny content whether in the form of text, photo, or video. The usage of LOLZ in the version of the Cambridge Dictionary is more highlighted on social media and text messages and does not include face-to-face communication. Meanwhile, LOLZ in the Oxford Dictionary is, “fun, laughter or the feeling that something makes you smile” in a plural context. The Oxford Dictionary defines LOLZ as an expression of someone when they found something very funny or when they have a sudden feeling that makes them laugh a lot. For instance, a memory of a funny embarrassing moment that happened at school. While the Cambridge Dictionary is specific, the Oxford Dictionary is more on the general side, defining LOLZ without mentioning its usage on the internet or in face-to-face communication.
What are the Variants of LOLZ?
As the modern era of technology arises, there are a lot of changes happening on the internet, especially in terms of language. LOLZ is a word that has been given different variants on the internet made by netizens.
Listed below are the variants of LOLZ.
LOL:
LOL stands for “Laughing Out Loud” and is the singular form of LOLZ which originated in the mid-1980s. Aside from the spelling, LOLZ and LOL do not have any differences.
LUL:
LUL is the acronym for “Lame Uncomfortable Laugh” which is used whenever there are awkward situations or scenarios that are not that funny.
XD:
XD is an emoticon that resembles a laughing face. The X signifies a pair of closed eyes and D projects a widely open mouth. XD originated on March 29, 2003. XD is a version of LOLZ that expresses less feeling of laughter in a much shorter version.
LULZ:
LULZ is a word used to express laughter at people who got pranked or were victims of jokes. LULZ is different from LOLZ as it expresses laughter at someone’s funny moments while LOLZ is more of a personal experience.
LOLOLOL:
LOLOLOL is similar to LOL and LOLZ, but it is in a more emphasized way. LOLOLOL and LOLZ are the same expressions of laughter, but the first one is used to express a much stronger and longer laugh compared to the second one.
What are the Derivations of LOLZ?
LOLZ just like any other word, has its own derivations. LOLZ has been the product of several additions of letters made by the people on the internet to make another word that expresses a more intense feeling.
Listed below are the derivations of LOLZ.
LOL:
LOL is the original and most commonly used word to express laughter.
LOL
became LOLZ when people started adding random letters to the word such as “S” and “Z” to add more spice to the conversation. LOL is usually used as a verb while LOLZ is more of a noun.
lolwut:
Lolwut is used for laughter with confusion. Confused people tends to say “what?” which is spelled “wut” by the people on the internet; thus, the lolwut. Lolwut differs from LOLZ as it expresses two different feelings, namely confusion, and laughter while LOLZ is only a strong feeling of having fun.
LEL:
LEL is the more funny and more sarcastic way of saying LOLZ. LEL is usually used to laugh at someone which resulted in mockery and insult, while LOLZ is just purely an expression of intense laughter.
What are the related terms to LOLZ?
Internet slang is used to communicate with other people across the internet in a much faster and more convenient way. These words under internet slang are interrelated to each other, and they are expressed in the proper English words as well.
Listed below are the related terms to LOLZ.
Guffaw:
Guffaw is an English word that means a laugh is loud and full of energy. Guffaw was first used in 1720. LOLZ and guffaw are different since the second one could be used in formal writings while the first one is only applicable for casual conversations.
Chuckle:
Chuckle describes a laugh with minimal sound and an inward manner. The word was first used in 1590 and was defined as a loud laugh back then. Chuckle and LOLZ is different as chuckle only expresses a minimal sounding laugh while LOLZ is the opposite one as it is loud and prolonged.
Giggle:
Giggle indicates when someone is laughing in a light and silly way. The word was first introduced in the 16th century. Giggle and LOLZ describe two contradictory ways of laughing because giggle indicates a lightweight laugh while LOLZ is an expression of several loud and heavy laughs.
*G*:
*G* is the simplest form for “grins”. The word literally means that the person is smiling or laughing at something.
LMAO:
LMAO is the acronym for “Laughing my Apples Off” first used in the early 1990s.
LMAO
is a more intense way of expressing laughter compared to LOLZ. Internet users nowadays use LMAO more often than LOLZ.
ROFL:
ROFL or “Rolling On the Floor Laughing” is another related term of LOLZ made in 1989.
ROFL
expresses a higher level of laughter and joy compared to LOLZ.
lqtm:
lqtm is an internet slang that means “laughing quietly to myself.” lqtm means laughing at oneself when there is an embarrassing or funny thing happening to them. lqtm is different from LOLZ as it is laughing at oneself in a silent manner, while LOLZ is describing a loud laugh whether at an internal or external factor.
What are the Foreign Equivalents of LOLZ from other Languages?
Internet slang covers a very large scope of languages because people around the world regardless of race and nationality are using it. Hence, di

[...truncated...]