Importance of Keyword Search Volume for SEO - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
Keyword Search Volume is an SEO metric used to understand and optimize the query search demand for certain phrases that web search engine users type into the search bar to satisfy their search intent. Keyword search volume is a fundamental concept for SEO, and information retrieval systems to understand the relevance of a document to a query. Keyword search volume is the number of times the specific phrase is used for searching for certain intents during a certain time. Keyword search volume changes from month to month, search vertical to search vertical, and search engine to search engine. Search engine technologies such as SEMrush, or Ahrefs use Clickstream and Web Browser extensions to track user behaviors to determine search demand by using their AI algorithms to predict specific search demands. Keyword search volume is an important metric for search engine optimization and advertisement. High search demand for a keyword increases the Pay Per Cost (PPC) while affecting the competitiveness for rankings.
Keyword search volume is expressed as Query Search Demand, or Query Popularity along with Search Term Frequency in search engine researchers and the information retrieval systems papers. To use keyword search volume (query search demand)  Because the concept “keyword” belongs to journalism rather than search engine optimization. The keyword concept is used by SEO technologies heavily, and it became the main term for queries. Thus, saying “search query”, or “search term” is a better concept than “keyword”. To use the keyword search volume efficiently, understanding information retrieval principles, relevance score calculation, query clustering, parsing, processing methods of search engines, and question generation, along with the answer pairing methods are important.
Keyword search-demand affects the search engine result page features, rankings, document count, and rankings. The key facts about keyword search volume are listed below.
Keyword search volume affects search engine result page features.
Keyword search volume affects PPC value because for more search engine users, the popular search terms are targeted by Google Ads performance marketers more.
Keyword search volume affects SEO Projects because most searched queries are targeted more by the SEOs.
Keyword Search Volume affects candidate web page count to be ranked because, for more popular search queries, more documents are created.
Keyword search volume changes from the search vertical to search vertical. A query in the image search vertical can be searched more in the news search vertical. For example, the query “war” can be searched less in the image search vertical than in the news search vertical.
Keyword search volume changes based on the search engine. A query can be searched more, or less according to the search engine. For example, the query “love” can be searched more in the Google search engine than in the Microsoft Bing search engine.
Keyword search volume affects how search engines process a query. A query can signal multiple different entities’ relevance, or contexts. Possible contexts and relevance points for a keyword affect the perception of the search engine.
Search engines prioritize different keywords based on their search demand (search volume) for indexing new documents and adjusting the rankings.
Query search-demand helps a search engine to understand the multiple different search intents and possible search behaviors of the search engine.
Queries contain different entities, and query search-demand signals the entity’s prominence to the searching audience.
Query search-demand helps a search engine cluster different queries based on query semantics.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What are the methods to Find Keyword Search Volume?
1.1.
How to Audit Keyword Search Volume with Ahrefs?
1.2.
How to Find Keyword Search Volume with SEMrush?
1.3.
How to Check Keyword Search Volume with MOZ?
1.4.
What is the best way to Check Keyword Search Volume?
1.4.1.
Are Keyword Research Volume and Search Volume the same?
1.4.2.
Are Query Search Demand and Keyword Search Volume the same?
1.4.3.
Are Search Term Volume and Keyword Search Volume the same?
2.
What do Search Engines use keyword search volume for?
2.1.
How do Search Engines use the Keyword Search Volume for Clustering?
2.2.
How do Search Engines use the Keyword Search Volume for Ranking?
3.
What do SEOs use keyword search volume for?
3.1.
How do Keyword Search Volume and Candidate Document Count correlate to each other?
3.2.
How does Keyword Search Volume change from search engine to search engine?
3.2.1.
What is Estimated Keyword Search Volume?
3.2.1.1.
How to See Keyword Search Volume on Google?
3.2.1.2.
How to See Keyword Search Volume on Microsoft Bing?
3.2.2.
Does Keyword Search Volume have a certainty?
4.
What are the best tools for Keyword Search Volume?
4.1.
What is the keyword search volume importance for keyword research?
4.2.
What is the keyword search volume importance for different keyword types?
4.3.
Does Keyword Search Volume correlate with Organic Click count?
4.4.
Does Keyword Search Volume affect the SERP Features?
5.
How does Keyword Search Volume affect Query Semantics?
5.1.
What is Query Semantics?
6.
How does Keyword Search Volume affect Information Retrieval Score?
6.1.
What is Information Retrieval?
7.
What is the relationship between Keyword Search Volume and Keyword Difficulty?
7.1.
What is the relevance of Keyword Search Volume to Gibberish Score?
7.1.1.
Why are Keyword Search Volume and Keyword Stuffing Related?
8.
Last Thoughts on Keyword Search Volume and Holistic SEO
What are the methods to Find Keyword Search Volume?
There are 5 main methods to find keyword search volume. The main methods to find keyword search volume are listed below.
Use an SEO Tool to understand keyword search volume.
Use candidate document count to understand keyword search volume.
Use impressions from Google Search Console to find keyword search volume.
Use SERP Features variety to understand the keyword search volume.
Use the average anchor text, and external reference popularity of documents to understand keyword search volume.
The methods to find keyword search volume involves direct search volume prediction analysis, along with inferring and auditing the search demand value for a keyword via SERP features, ranking changes, and Google Search Console impression inferring. The most precise method to check the keyword search volume is using a certain keyword search volume checker technology such as SEMrush, Ahrefs, MOZ, SERanking, etc.
How to Audit Keyword Search Volume with Ahrefs?
Audit keyword search volume with Ahrefs with the steps below.
Open an Ahrefs Account.
Open Ahrefs Dashboard
Choose Ahrefs Keyword Explorer Tool
Choose the Search Engine among Google, YouTube, Amazon, and Microsoft Bing for keyword search volume check with Ahrefs.
Write the targeted keyword to learn its search volume on the Ahrefs Keyword Explorer tool.
Choose the targeted geography for the specific keyword’s search volume on Ahrefs.
Examine the keyword search volume column to learn the volume of the specific keyword.
Ahrefs gives keyword search volume based on its own algorithm. It doesn’t provide a certain keyword search volume value. Ahrefs gives the amount of “clicks” for a keyword, and keyword search volume changes over the month. An example keyword search volume search with Ahrefs is below.
Ahrefs Keyword Search Volume Checker gives Traffic Potential, Global Keyword Search Volume ,and related queries search volume.
How to Find Keyword Search Volume with SEMrush?
Audit keyword search volume with Ahrefs with the steps below.
Open a SEMrush Account.
Open SEMrush SEO Dashboard
Choose SEMrush Keyword Magic Tool
Write targeted keyword to learn its search volume on SEMrush.
Choose the targeted geography for the specific keyword’s search volume on SEMrush.
Check the keyword search volume column to learn the search volume of the specific keyword.
SEMrush gives the keyword search volume approximately. SEOs shouldn’t take the SEMrush keyword search volume as precise search volume. An example of keyword search volume checking with SEMrush is below.
SEMrush keyword search volume gives keyword search volume for different geographies along with
Cost Per Click
information.
How to Check Keyword Search Volume with MOZ?
Check keyword search volume with Moz with the steps below.
Open a MOZ Account.
Open MOZ SEO Dashboard
Choose MOZ Keyword Explorer Tool.
Click on Keyword Overview Section.
Write targeted keyword to learn its search volume on Keyword Overview of MOZ.
Choose the targeted geography for the specific keyword’s search volume on MOZ.
Check the keyword search volume column to learn the search volume of the specific keyword with MOZ.
MOZ Keyword search volumes are not precise. Thus, SEOs use keyword search volume cautiously with MOZ. An example of a keyword search volume audit with MOZ is below.
MOZ Keyword Search Volume Checker gives Organic CTR guess and Priority of the keyword for a content development strategy.
What is the best way to Check Keyword Search Volume?
The best way to check keyword search volume is using a search engine optimization tool that gives the predicted search volume per keyword. SEO tools can’t give the exact keyword search volume. Thus, all of them have to be estimated search-demand per certain period. To increase the certainty of the estimated keyword search volume, auditing the impressions of certain web pages that rank at the first three ranks for certain queries provides a better understanding. Auditing the search demand for a query phrase requires skepticism and continuous testing. Because search demand is not a fixed number. Search demand of a keyword changes from a season to season, or seasonal events, and breaking news. Thus, an SEO strategy that uses the keyword search volume should understand that trending queries, and entities will help certain documents to rank higher. And, SEOs can create different types of semantic content networks, and content strategies to help their websites stay relevant, updated, and quality for every angle, and query usage behavior changes. Thus, keyword search volume checking via SEO tools, and actual Google Search Console data, along with the Google Ads Keyword Planner data is necessary.
Are Keyword Research Volume and Search Volume the same?
Yes, keyword research volume and search volume are the same things. Keyword research volume is a different phrase that means the same thing as keyword search volume. Both of the concepts involve a certain number of searches for a certain phrase or a certain search engine.
Are Query Search Demand and Keyword Search Volume the same?
Yes, query search demand and keyword search volume are the same. Query search demand is used heavily in the Information Retrieval Systems and keyword search volume is used heavily in SEO tools and community. Query search demand academically is more correct, while keyword search volume is more popular in the SEO community.
Are Search Term Volume and Keyword Search Volume the same?
Yes, search term volume and keyword search volume are the same. A search term is a synonym for the search query phrase and keyword. Thus, search term volume and keyword search volume mean the same thing, which is a certain number of searches for a certain amount of time over a search engine.
What do Search Engines use keyword search volume for?
Search engines use keyword search volume for mainly three different search engine tasks. These search engine tasks that are related to keyword search volume are listed below.
Query clustering based on keyword search volume.
Query intent understanding based on search volume.
Query entity association based on search volume.
Query Question generation based on search volume.
Query search result construction with search volume.
Keyword search volume helps search engines prioritize indexation, and crawling for certain queries, and refresh the indexes for trending queries. Keyword search volume is a useful metric for keyword clustering, and document clustering along with the Information Retrieval related asks such as term weight calculation and topicality understanding. Search engines use keyword search volume to understand how many users can be satisfied faster, and better, with different search engine-related tasks.
How do Search Engines use the Keyword Search Volume for Clustering?
The main benefit of keyword search volume for search engine tasks is keyword clustering. Keyword clustering is a method for search engine optimization along with search engine building. Search engines use phrase listings and entity listings along with triples to optimize query-document distances. Query clusters are related to query semantics. A query semantically is relevant to another query even if there is no lexical relation. Query clusters use the keyword search volume to determine a parent query, or a seed query to understand which query belongs to which query cluster. Query clusters are helpful for creating document clusters. Understanding how search engines create different query clusters, and how they weight different terms in the queries and documents for relevance, and responsiveness is important for search engine optimization. Thus, keyword search volume is a bi-directional concept for understanding the search engine and optimizing for the search engine. Query semantics and keyword search volume create different query clusters and networks. A query network is the collection of different query clusters, while a query cluster is the collection of different queries. Query clusters and networks are relevant to semantic search, and the semantic web. Thus, keyword search volume is a central concept for semantic SEO.
How do Search Engines use the Keyword Search Volume for Ranking?
Search engines use keyword search volume to adjust ranking 

[...truncated...]
