What does PS Mean? P.S Meaning and How to Write it? - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
“PS” or “P.S.” is the abbreviation for postscript. Postscript comes from the Latin word postscriptum, meaning “written afterward.” A postscript is a short message appended to the end of a letter. It is placed after the signature of the sender. Particularly in sales and marketing promotion letters, postscripts are used to make a final persuasive pitch or offer an additional incentive to a potential customer in business letters. A “PS” is used to add a reminder, make a joke, or emphasize something that is already in the message. A writer is able to add a “PS” at the end of the letter or communication followed by a quick comment if the sender failed to include something in the body of the communication. One common mistake in writing and including a postscript message in a letter or communication is that many people trying to follow patterns inadvertently write “PSS” instead of “PPS” when adding something more after the postscript. The postscript, or “PS,” is a flexible tool that has been used for millennia in other forms and for centuries in written communication. Postscripts convey supplementary information that the letter’s or email’s author either overlooked until the very end, is pertinent to the message itself, or is in some other way unrelated to the remainder of the communication.
The abbreviation “PS” appears after the main body and signature in a written letter. Post means “after” and scriptum means “written.” “PS” is intended as an afterthought or extra detail that is not covered in the letter’s body. “PS” was used more frequently when handwritten letters were the most common type of communication. Today, not only traditional letter writing contains “PS.” Instant messaging, chat, and social media platforms have used “PS” in different manners and for different purposes. A historical “PS” example is written by the President of the United States of America President. Thomas Jefferson, when the president sent a letter to Pierre Samuel Dupont de Nemours, wrote,
“
P.S. If you return to us, bring a couple of a pair of true-bred shepherd’s dogs. You will add a valuable possession to a country now beginning to pay great attention to raising sheep.
”
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does PS Mean?
2.
How to Write a PS Text?
3.
How to Punctuate Postscript?
3.1.
How to Format a PostScript?
4.
Where is PS used in the text?
4.1.
Is it normal to use PS in business emails?
4.2.
Do people use PS for regular text messages?
4.3.
Is it normal to use PS in chat?
4.4.
Can a letter have multiple PS?
5.
How to use PostScript in letters?
5.1.
What are the examples of PostScript from historical letters?
6.
When is P.S used for the first time?
6.1.
How does PostScript evolve?
7.
What are the benefits of P.S in emails and letters?
7.1.
1. Emphasizes a Subject with more details
7.2.
2. Gives Arguments Better
7.3.
3. Conveys a Lasting Thought for the Recipient
7.4.
4. Summarizes the Text for Better Grasping
7.5.
5. Delivers a Prominent Feeling
8.
When not to use a Postscript in the text?
9.
When does Content Writer use PS on web pages?
9.1.
Does PS help with search engine optimization?
9.1.1.
Is it beneficial for a content writing team to use and know PS?
10.
How does Generation Z use PS in Social Media?
What does PS Mean?
“PS,” which stands for “PostScript,” is a term that refers to an additional thought that is added to letters or communications after they have been completed. A “PS” is used to add a reminder, make a joke, or emphasize something that is already in the message. “PS,” was derived from the Latin postcriptum, which literally means “written after.” Writers discovered that recollecting an important detail only after the letter had been signed off was typical and usual during the era of handwritten and typed letters. A “PS” was helpful in that situation. “PS” is utilized to add a smart or humorous postscript for effect. A postscript is helpful in the business setting, if the writer wants to underline a particular point in the letter or if something significant comes up after the letter has been written. The necessity to rework the letter is avoided by using a postscript.
How to Write a PS Text?
Writer must add a “PS” at the end of the letter or communication followed by a quick comment if the sender failed to include something in the body of the communication. The prevalence of digital communication today makes it simple for people to alter communications before sending. Using “PS” is a common practice for a variety of purposes, including an unrelated note or grabbing the reader’s attention. People add a “PPS” (post postscript) after a “PS” to add further extra messages. However, it is advantageous to keep “PS” to one, as it shows professionalism and highlights the point that the writer is trying to make.
Listed below are the 5 steps in writing a PS text.
Plan when to use “PS”:
Decide when and how to use PS before including one in any communication. “PS” usually indicates a light-hearted tone, although there are numerous ways to employ a “PS.” Consider whether to have a formal or informal relationship with the receiver when deciding when to use a “PS.”
Select the desired punctuation:
The following are linguistically appropriate options for punctuating PS: “PS”, “P.S.”, “PS:”, and “P.S.:”. A writer must punctuate the postscript in any of the ways listed unless the company has a specific style standard that must be adhered to. Consider the same punctuation every time writing and use PS to preserve consistency.
Think of the goal of the message:
Determining the purpose of the “PS” helps the author write it in a clear and simple manner. Business people include a “PS” in the message to communicate a deadline to the receiver, create motivation, expand a point, emphasize an essential idea, and customize the message.
Write the PS message:
Write the message of the “PS” after deciding when and why to include one in the communication. Brief messages known as postscripts address the communication’s topic. For instance, if communicating with a manager with multiple queries, the “PS” makes a reference to the most crucial issue to highlight its significance. Additionally, “PS” must be used to summarize the letter, which eliminates the need for recipients to send follow-up messages.
Proofread, edit, and revise:
It is crucial to review and edit the postscript after writing and before sending the communication. Make sure that the “PS” is clear and free of grammar, spelling, and punctuation errors. A perfect, error-free “PS” is important because a “PS” is part of the whole message, and recipients are most likely to remember the last part of the letter.
One common mistake in writing and including a postscript message in a letter or communication is many people trying to follow patterns inadvertently write “PSS” instead of “PPS” when adding something more after the postscript. Since modern technology makes it so simple to edit and add to writing, it is preferable to just go back and put the new information at a suitable location in the writing’s main body. Authors come seen as lazy and uneducated when using “PSS.”
How to Punctuate Postscript?
The authors wonder something or another about the punctuation requirements of “PS.” Does it need to be capitalized? Or does “PS” is used with or without periods? Some people even wonder whether it is necessary to include any following punctuation after “PS.” Keeping both alphabets capitalized is the proper way. However, grammarians continue to disagree about the use of periods.
Listed below are the instructions for punctuating the postscript.
Both “PS” and “P.S.” are correct:
The use of periods is determined by the style manual being adhered to, the target audience, and personal preferences.
“PS” must always be capitalized:
Writers must maintain both the “P” and “S” capitalized. PostScripts or “PS” must always be capitalized with or without periods.
An example of a “PS” note for a letter includes, “PS: Please read the book I sent you and what you think about it.” Or in other forms such as, “P.S.: Please read the book I sent you and what you think about it.”; “PS Please read the book I sent you and what you think about it.”; or “P.S. Please read the book I sent you and what you think about it.” The example of a PS note here is to remind the receiver to read the book and let the sender of the thoughts about the book. According to the Cambridge Dictionary, British English must be written using the “PS” format. Consequently, according to the Cambridge Dictionary, “P.S.,” the format for American English is with periods after each letter. The Chicago Manual of Style, however, prefers “PS” without periods.
How to Format a PostScript?
The Postscript, or “PS,” is a flexible tool that has been used for millennia in other forms and for centuries in written communication. Postscripts convey supplementary information that the letter’s or email’s author either overlooked until the very end, is pertinent to the message itself, or is in some other way unrelated to the remainder of the communication. Be it a business email, a letter to a friend or loved one, or copy for a marketing message. Anyone is able to use a postscript to effectively express the tone and information the author wishes to convey to the reader. “PS” has been formatted because it has become the standard. Formatting a “PS” differs only to whom the letter or communication is addressed.
Listed below are the instructions for formatting a postscript.
Postscript must go after the signature:
Postscripts were first mostly used to include information after the letter was completed, and the author had gone over it. In keeping with such custom, the “PS” must be placed below or next to the signature to emphasize the postscript’s afterthought character.
If prefer not to use “P.S.,” write “PS.”:
The two abbreviations for postscript, “PS” and “P.S.,” are interchangeable and more frequently used in US English than UK English. The author ought to pick the one that appeals the most. But it’s crucial to remember that “P.S.” must not have a comma after it. Neither “PS” nor “P.S.” are regarded as appropriate methods to begin a postscript.
Put a “P” after “P.S.” to add more postscripts:
Since “post” in “postscript” is a Latin word for “after” and “script” is the Latin word for “writing,” adding another “P” to “P.S.” results in “after-after-writing,” or “P.P.S.” Even while adding ‘P’s is necessary, the tone is adorable and can even border on cheeky or funny, so anything longer than “P.P.S,” like “P.P.P.P.S.”, must only be used for light-hearted emails or personal communications to co-workers and peers.
A postscript must be brief:
A lengthy “P.S.” is unnecessary, especially in business or marketing contexts. A lengthy “PS” shows that the author did not carefully plan the message because, if the author had, the information must have been in the body. A postscript is easier to manage if there is a 4-5 line limit. A long “P.S.” in a personal message simply indicates that the author had another point wanted to make when the author recalled it. Adding a whole new story in a “P.S.” to a friend or family member is acceptable.
Where is PS used in the text?
Traditionally, the acronym “PS” appears after the main body and signature in a written letter. Post means “after” and scriptum means “written.” PS is intended as an afterthought or extra detail that is not covered in the letter’s body. “PS” was used more frequently when handwritten letters were the most common type of communication. However, in the digital world, businesses and personal messages and communications now used the term “P.S.” taking advantage of “PS” as a symbol of reminder and emphasis. The bearing of the PS being placed at the end of each communication is derived from the term itself. Post means “after” and scriptum means “written.” Thus, after the writer signs off on a letter or email, the “PS” or postscript appears at the end.
Is it normal to use PS in business emails?
Yes, it is normal to use “PS” in business emails. It goes without saying that the author can alter the content and add extra information to the email’s body before pressing the “send” button if someone is typing out an email. However, in the business context, especially, marketing professionals believe that adding a “PS” is a smart move for grabbing the reader’s attention and increasing the likelihood that targeted customers act on the call to action. An example of a postscript in an email is used to entice the recipient with special offers, which includes using a link or direct digital traffic toward the business website. “PS: Click to learn more about the new collection and to view current specials and discounts.”
Do people use PS for regular text messages?
Yes, people use “PS” for regular text messages. “PS” stands for “PostScript” in texting, much like PS does in written communication. “PS” is a way to add information to the message that initially forgot to write. “PS” is frequently used in texting as an alternative to “by the way”. In texting, people use “PS” by simply adding “PS” and including the information after “PS,” if ever something that must have been included at the beginning of the message was forgotten or just to emphasize a point. An example of a postscript in a text message is used to emphasize a point or denote a reminder. “After dancing all night, we eventually returned home because we were too worn out. “PS: I met a really handsome guy!” “So that’s pretty much it. Oh, PS, I forgot to mention John said you must call him.”
Is it normal to use PS in chat?
Yes, it is normal to use “PS” in chat. Regular text messages and business communications is a chat platform that users are able to “PS” just like in emails. “PS” in chat serves the same purpose as “PS” in other mediums of communication. “PS” conveys supplementary information that the letter’s or email’s author either 

[...truncated...]