451 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The 451 HTTP Status Code means that the request is unavailable for legal reasons indicates that as a result of a legal demand, the server is limiting access to the resource. It is possible that the server in issue is not an origin server. Typically, this form of legal demand has the greatest direct impact on the operations of ISPs and search engines. Responses to this Status Code should include an explanation of the legal demand’s contents in the answer body, including the party who made it, the applicable legislation or regulation, and the types of person and resource to whom it applies. The 451 HTTP Status Code does not imply the existence or non-existence of the resource specified in the request. That is, even if the legal requirements are removed, a request for the resource may still be refused. Clients can often still access the blocked resource by utilizing technical countermeasures such as a VPN or the Tor network. By default, a 451 HTTP Status Code is cacheable, unless the method specification or explicit cache settings indicate otherwise. The difference between 400 HTTP Status Codes and 451 HTTP Status Code is that the 400 HTTP Status Codes indicate that the server is unable or unwilling to perform the request as a result of an apparent client error, whereas the 451 HTTP Status Code indicates that a server operator has received a legal demand requiring them to refuse access to a resource or a collection of resources that contains the requested resource.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does 451 HTTP Status Code Mean?
1.1.
How to Use 451 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
2.
How to Check 451 HTTP Status Code?
2.1.
Which HTTP Method is used with 451 HTTP Status Code?
3.
What are the Related HTTP Response Headers with 451 HTTP Status Code?
4.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of 451 HTTP Status Code?
5.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to 451 HTTP Status Codes?
What does 451 HTTP Status Code Mean?
The 451 HTTP Status Code means unavailable for legal reasons indicates that the server is limiting access to the resource as a result of a legal demand. It’s possible that this isn’t an origin server at all. ISPs and search engines are the main recipients of this type of legal demand.
How to Use 451 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
To use the 451 HTTP Status Code is when the resource named in the request does not exist or does not exist. That means, it is feasible that even if the legal requirements were removed, the request for the resource might still reject.
How to Check 451 HTTP Status Code?
To check the 451 HTTP Status Code use the web browser network tab and developer tools for every resource that the client uses.
Which HTTP Method is used with 451 HTTP Status Code?
The HTTP methods that are used with the 451 HTTP Status Codes are given below.
HEAD HTTP Method: The HEAD HTTP method is used in the 451 HTTP Response Status Code. The HEAD method requests a response identical to that of the GET method, but without the content of the answer.
POST HTTP Method: The POST HTTP method is used in the 451 HTTP Response Status Code. The POST method sends an entity to the resource that was chosen. This can change the server’s state or have other effects.
What are the Related HTTP Response Headers with 451 HTTP Status Code?
There is a related HTTP Response Header with 451  HTTP Status Code which is the 431 HTTP Status Code. The
431 HTTP Status Code
indicates that the request’s header fields are too large, and the server refuses to handle it. Reducing the request header fields’ size allows the request to be resubmitted.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of 451 HTTP Status Code?
You can see the table that shows the browser’s compatibility of the 451 HTTP Status Code below.
Browsers Name
Browser Compatibility of 451 HTTP Status Code
Chrome
YES
Edge
YES
Firefox
YES
Internet Explorer
YES
Opera
YES
Safari
YES
Webview Android
YES
What are the other Similar Status Codes to 451 HTTP Status Codes?
There are other similar HTTP Status Codes to the 451 HTTP Status Code. The following are listed below.
426 Upgrade Required HTTP Status Code: The
426  HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 451 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 426  HTTP Status Code indicates that the server declines to process the request using the current protocol but may do so if the client upgrades to a different protocol. In a 426 response, the server includes an Upgrade header to indicate the required protocols.
428 Precondition Required HTTP Status Code: The
428  HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 451 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 428  HTTP Status Code indicates that the origin server expects a conditional request.
429 Too Many Requests HTTP Status Code: The
429  HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 451 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 429  HTTP Status Code indicates that too many requests have been made in a short period of time by the user (rate limiting).
425 Too Early HTTP Status Code: This indicates that the server is unwilling to take the risk of processing a request that could be replayed. The
425 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 426 HTTP Status Code which is also a client error response.
Author
Recent Posts
Follow SEO
Holistic SEO
SEO Research Department
at
Holistic SEO & Digital
Holistic SEO & Digital has been built by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR. Holistic SEO is the process of developing integrated digital marketing projects with every aspect including Coding, Natural Language Processing, Data Science, Page Speed, Digital Analytics, Content Marketing, Technical SEO, and Branding. Structured, Semantic Search Engine improves its ability to detect the real-world entities, today. Having a simple website is not enough anymore. To show that your brand is authoritative, trustworthy, and expert on its own niche, you need entity-based Search Engine Optimization Projects. Holistic SEO & Digital's main focus is on improving the brand's organic visibility and growth potential.
Follow SEO
Latest posts by Holistic SEO
(
see all
)
48 Online Shopping and Consumer Behavior Statistics, Facts and Trends
- August 22, 2023
B2B Marketing Statistics
- August 22, 2023
38 Podcast Statistics, Facts, and Trends
- August 22, 2023
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
TechSEO
451 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods
by Holistic SEO
time to read: 3 min
TechSEO
500 HTTP Response Status Codes: Meaning, Methods &…
TechSEO
305 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
0
0
0
