Sympathy vs Empathy: Difference between Them - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The words “sympathy” and “empathy” are two different terms that differ both in spelling and context. “Sympathy” is a noun that pertains to an emotion or feeling of pity towards another person or group of people.“Empathy” is a word that describes a more deep emotion. “Empathy” is a noun that pertains to the capacity of humans to comprehend someone’s situation. The word “empathy” is commonly linked to the phrase “putting one’s foot in someone’s shoe”, mainly because a person who is empathetic knows and understands someone’s current situation. “Sympathy” and “empathy” are usually used in a situation where other people are experiencing misfortune or unfavorable circumstances.
The differences and comparisons between “sympathy” and “empathy” are listed below.
“Sympathy” is used as a noun.
“Sympathy” is used to describe a situation.
“Sympathy” is used when one person shares the feelings of another.
“Sympathy” is used to describe an emotion.
“Sympathy” is used to describe an agreement.
“Empathy” is used to describe emotion.
“Empathy” is used as a noun.
“Empathy” is used to describe feelings.
“Empathy” is used to describe passion.
“Empathy” is used to describe a situation.
The depth of emotion and context must be considered in deciding whether to use the word “sympathy” or empathy. The term “Sympathy” is used when someone shares an emotion with a person that is experiencing an unfortunate event. The word “sympathy” is a more shallow feeling and lacks a complete understanding of the situation. On the other hand, “empathy” is a deeper concept that both share feelings and provide an understanding of certain circumstances. “Empathy” is a word usually used by people who have experienced the same undesirable happening before in their lives.
Some examples of the word “sympathy” include “Please accept my sincere sympathy in the loss of your father.” “The president has sent a message of sympathy to the relatives of the dead soldiers.” The usage of “sympathy” in the sentences is correct, mainly because it perfectly suits the context. The sentence is about a person showing a feeling of pity toward someone who lost a father and relatives of the dead soldiers. It is appropriate to use “sympathy” as a word to describe a thoughtful message to the people who lost their loved ones. Meanwhile, some examples of the word “empathy” are “She felt great empathy with the homeless.” “The kid felt empathy towards her friend who just lost his dog because her dog also died last year.” The usage of “empathy” is grammatically correct in the sentence since it was used as a noun to discuss the understanding of a person towards homeless people and a friend who just lost their dog.
The difference between “sympathy” and “empathy” must be known to write better content and communicate in a healthier way. The precision of contexts is highly critical in content writing and marketing, especially since each piece of information is dependent on every keyword. Content writing and marketing demand an accurate description and definition. Articles and marketing that have not been correctly written cause misinterpretation and learning deficiency among readers. Hence, knowing the difference between “sympathy” and “empathy” is highly significant to relay the information to the readers and users clearly and appropriately.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does “Sympathy” Mean?
1.1.
What are the Sentence Examples with “Sympathy”?
1.2.
When to Use the word “Sympathy” in a Sentence?
1.3.
What are the Synonyms of “Sympathy”?
1.3.1.
What are the Antonyms of “Sympathy”?
1.4.
How to spell “Sympathy”?
1.5.
What are the prepositions and helper words for Sympathy?
2.
What does “Empathy” Mean?
2.1.
What are the Sentence Examples with “Empathy”?
2.2.
When to Use the Word “Empathy” in a sentence?
2.3.
What are the Synonyms of “Empathy”?
2.3.1.
What are the Antonyms of “Empathy”?
2.4.
How to Spell “Empathy”?
2.5.
What are the prepositions and helper words for Empathy?
3.
Comparison between “Sympathy” and “Empathy”
4.
​Why is “Sympathy” and “Empathy” misused interchangeably in English?
4.1.
Are “Sympathy” and “Empathy” the most commonly misused English words?
4.2.
What are the other similar Misused Word Pairs like “Empathy” and “Sympathy” in English?
5.
How do Content Writers use “Sympathy” and “Empathy” in their articles?
5.1.
Do Content Writers use “Sympathy” and “Empathy” in the wrong way?
5.2.
Do Misused Words such as “Empathy” and “Sympathy” Empathy SEO and UX?
What does “Sympathy” Mean?
The word “sympathy” is a noun that means “the act or feeling of sorrow or pity towards other people.” “Sympathy” is commonly used in contexts, namely a conversation or discussion about unfortunate incidents or happenings. “Sympathy” is a word derived from the Greek word “sym” that is associated with the meaning “together” and “pathos” which implies an emotion or feeling, usually sadness. The Oxford Dictionary defines the word “sympathy” as “feelings of pity and sorrow for someone else’s misfortune” and “the desire to be sorry for somebody.” “Sympathy” was first used in the English language during the 16th century. “Sympathy” is a very common English word. It is common in textbooks, novels, short stories, and even in casual conversations and discussions. The word “sympathy” is highly significant, mainly because it is a word that provides comfort to someone that is experiencing undesirable circumstances.
What are the Sentence Examples with “Sympathy”?
The sentence examples with the word “Sympathy” are listed below.
“John Stevenson belonged to a generation in which the most remarkable feature was the growth of
sympathy
.” The word “sympathy” was used in the sentence to discuss the main characteristic of the person’s generation.
I realize in most ways John isn’t deserving of too much
sympathy
, but I still think of her as a tragic figure. The sentence example used “sympathy” as a noun that defines the feeling that is being stated in the sentence.
Those attending a conference abroad tend to be the envy of their colleagues so complaints about such trials and tribulations elicit little
sympathy
. “Sympathy” was used in the sentence as a noun that expresses the small amount of expression given due to a particular situation.
I have the utmost
sympathy
for staff employed by British Waterways facing a reorganization. The sentence included the word “sympathy” to express the feeling that the person wants to share with someone for their unfortunate experience.
He was anxiously sensitive about the opinion of others, eager for their
sympathy
and regard, and, in general, impressionable to their influence. The term “sympathy” is placed in the sentence as a noun that discusses an emotion that someone wants to earn from people.
When to Use the word “Sympathy” in a Sentence?
The term “sympathy” is a noun used to define shared feelings with another from one’s own point of view, particularly an event. The term “sympathy” is used as a formal expression in the form of sharing feelings or thinking. The synonym for “sympathy” are “condolence, concern, and support.” It must be used in the context that tackles someone’s undesirable experience. The word “sympathy” is to offer compassion and concern as a source of available support. Do not use “sympathy” in a situation that has the potential to be offensive such as “I know that you just feel sympathy towards her because you need something from her.” The word “sympathy” is a further alternative to the phrase “accept my condolences” which is an expression of sympathy that is grammatically corrected. “Sympathy” is defined as understanding and caring for someone else’s suffering “accept” is defined as regard favorably or with approval.
How to use “sympathy” and “empathy” in the same sentence? The topic must be about expressing a feeling of pity and understanding to use “sympathy” and “empathy in the same sentence. The words “empathy” and “sympathy” vary in meaning and are allowed to be used in the same sentence since they do not cause redundancy. However, they are restricted to be used in succession with each other as it is grammatically incorrect. An example of “sympathy” and “empathy” in the same sentence is, “The friends showed sympathy to her, but the relatives gave empathy when she lost her mother.” Another example is, “The ability of humans to provide sympathy and empathy to their peers makes them unique compared to other living organisms.”
What are the Synonyms of “Sympathy”?
The synonyms of the word “sympathy” are “compassion”, “condolences”, and “pity.” The word “compassion” means “an act of concern towards other people who are in a bad state.” Some examples of “compassion” in a sentence are, “Healthcare professionals may seem emotionless, but they have compassion (sympathy) towards their patients.” “The politicians of their country only express their compassion (sympathy) during the elections.” “Condolences” is an English term that means, “a feeling of pity shown to people who lost their loved ones.” An example of “condolences” in a sentence is, “My classmates sent their deepest condolences (sympathy) to our professor because he lost his daughter.” Another example is, “They offer their condolences (sympathy) to the families who lost their loved ones because of the flood.” The word “Pity” means, “the state of sadness and compassion caused by the suffering and troubles of other people.” Some examples of “pity” in sentences include, “After all the misfortunes that happened in her life, she deserves all the pity (sympathy) she receives from her family right now.” “The landlady did not ask the tenant to pay the rent, but she showed pity (sympathy) instead because the tenant was robbed.”
What are the Antonyms of “Sympathy”?
The antonyms of “sympathy” include “insensitivity” and “unconcern.” The term “insensitivity” means “lacks a feeling for others.” An example of “insensitivity” in a sentence is, “Despite the tragic events that happened this year, there are still people whose insensitivity never melted.” On the other hand, “unconcern” is an English word that means, “lack of care for others.” One example of “unconcern” in a sentence is, “I guess the mother does not love her children because she’s unconcern with them.”
How to spell “Sympathy”?
The spelling of the word “sympathy” is “S-Y-M-P-A-T-H-Y.” It starts with the letter “s” and ends with the letter “y.” “Sympathy” contains eight letters in total and only has one vowel which is the letter “a.” The most common misspelled version of “sympathy” is “simpathy.” The difference between “sympathy” and “simpathy” is the letter “i” after the first letter which makes it automatically incorrect. The misspelled version does not have any meaning associated with it.
What are the prepositions and helper words for Sympathy?
The preposition and helper words for sympathy are “for”, “in”, “from”, and “with.” The preposition “for” is used to indicate a purpose in a sentence. For instance, “She just posted her apology video for sympathy.” On the other hand, “in” is a preposition that means “describing the circumstance of being enclosed or surrounded by a particular thing.” An example of “in” as a preposition of “sympathy” is “I’ve received too much sympathy in the last few weeks.” Furthermore, “of” is another preposition that is followed by a noun describing the subject of the verb underlying the first noun. For example, in the sentence, “Tony did not respond, but looked cordially into the Merchant’s eyes which the feeling of sympathy was pleasing to her.” Moreover, the preposition “from” implies the source of “sympathy” is, “The children received so much sympathy from the netizens after they lost their parents from the accident last night.” “With” is a preposition that means “accompanied” by.” One example of “with” and “sympathy” in a sentence is, “The owner of a deceased dog did not just receive donations, but also a letter with sympathy messages.”
What does “Empathy” Mean?
The word “empathy” is a noun that describes an emotional understanding of other people’s situations. It is mostly used in sentences that discuss unfavorable and unhappy situations. The term “empathy” originated from the Ancient Greek word
empathia
where “em” means “in” and “pathia” or “pathos” means “feeling.” “empathy” was first used in the English language in 1909 by Edward Bradford during the translation of the word from the German language. According to the Oxford Dictionary, “empathy” means “the ability to visualize and understand the thoughts, perspectives, and emotions of another person.” The word “empathy” is a common English that is used to imagine what it is like to be in a person’s situation. The importance of using proper “empathy” is to understand the situation to deliver the correct act of emotion and thoughts.
What are the Sentence Examples with “Empathy”?
The sentence examples with “empathy” are listed below.
“It is important to be a good listener and show
empathy
for the individual’s situation.” “Empathy” was used here as a noun that describes an emotion of understanding that must be shown to a person suffering from an undesirable phase of their life.
“YouTube’s contribution to world peace is not simply to add
empathy
to current events, although that would be enough.” The word “empathy” was placed in the sentence for the purpose of discussing a feeling expressed by the subject that is already sufficient for the current happenings that are probably tragic.
“Showing compassion and expressing
empathy
shows how much you care about the person you are with and keeps that love alive.” The example utilized “empathy” as one of the main characteristics of loving someone.
“This is an age where children begin to exhibit both the responsibility and
empathy
needed to take care of another living being.” The word “empathy” in the sentence is a key element of compassion.
“The psychic ability of
empathy
is often mi

[...truncated...]