100 Exquisite Adjectives to Know and Start using in Sentences - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
Adjectives are part of the sentence that is used to describe words, such as nouns and pronouns. They are describing words used to provide more information regarding the words. They act as a complement to linking verbs or the verb to be. There are many types of adjectives that the writers are allowed to use, such as cool adjectives, fun adjectives, and exquisite adjectives. These adjectives are used to tell the readers what the content writers are talking about. It beautifies the sentences to avoid boring the readers by providing entertainment. However, these different articles have various tones and sounds to them. Cool and Fun adjectives are used for a more conversational type of content. Exquisite adjectives are used for more professional and formal content. It means that content writers must know what kind of adjectives they must use for the type of content they are writing.
Listed below are the 100 Exquisite Adjectives to Know and Start using in Sentences.
Adamant:
Adamant is defined as “stubborn not to change the mind or to be persuaded.” It means “unshakable” and “unbreakable hard substance.”
Adroit:
Adroit is defined as “clever and showing skill.” It means “being smart in handling situations.”
Amatory:
Amatory is defined as “relating to or connected with sexual desire or activity.” It means “lovemaking or expressing sexual love.”
Animistic:
Animistic is used to describe someone that believes that spirits are separable from their bodies.”
Antic:
Antic is defined as “characterized by clownish extravagance or absurdity.” It means “whimsically lighthearted,” “behavior which is unreasonable or dangerous,” and “behavior that is silly and funny in a way that people usually like.”
Arcadian:
Arcadian is defined as “serene,” rural,” “simple,” or “innocent.” It is used to describe a pleasant and quiet place.
Baleful:
Baleful is defined as “the way somebody looks at another person or something. Someone “baleful” threatens to harm another person.”
Bellicose:
Bellicose is defined as “having or showing a desire to argue or fight.” It means “favoring or inclined to start quarrels or wars.”
Bilious:
Bilious is defined as “temperament disposition” and “unpleasant.” Bilious is a yellow or greenish fluid secreted by the liver because of liver dysfunction.
Boorish:
Boorish is defined as “unpleasant,” “rude,” or “insensitive.” Someone that is “boorish” disregards other people’s feelings.
Calamitous:
Calamitous describes something “that causes great damage to people’s lives or property.” It is similar to the word “disastrous,” meaning “terrible” or “horrendous.”
Caustic:
Caustic describes something “that gets destroyed or dissolved.” Additionally, the word is used to describe something that is “sarcastic” or “in a bitter way.”
Cerulean:
Cerulean is defined as “deep blue in color.” It is used together with a word that is in the color blue, such as water or sky.
Comely:
Comely describes something that is “pleasant to look at.” It is generally used to describe an appearance. Additionally, it is used to describe someone that has “features or qualities that make something seem interesting and worth having.”
Concomitant:
Concomitant describes something “accompanying especially in a subordinate or incidental way.” It means something is happening at the same time as something else, primarily because one thing is related to or causes the other.
Contumacious:
Contumacious describes someone that has no respect for authority.” It means “stubbornly disobedient.” It is synonymous to the word “rebellious.”
Corpulent:
Corpulent describes someone as “having a large bulky body.” Corpulent is synonymous with the words “obese” or “fat.”
Crapulous:
Crapulous describes something “marked by overindulgence in eating or drinking.” Crapulous is the feeling of being unwell because of excessive liquor and food.
Defamatory:
Defamatory is a dishonest statement about someone else, resulting in hurting their image and stature. It harms somebody by saying or writing harmful or inaccurate information about somebody.
Didactic:
Didactic pertains to something or someone that educates others about something, such as a moral lesson or behavior.
Dilatory:
Dilatory describes a thing or a person that is  “delayed.” It is somehow similar to the word “procrastination.”
Dowdy:
Dowdy describes something as “boring,” “not attractive or fashionable.” It means that someone or something is not neat and lacks taste.
Efficacious:
Efficacious is defined as “having the power to produce the desired effect.”
Effulgent:
Effulgent describes something “shining brightly.” It means that something shows great happiness or goodness. It is a suitable replacement for words such as “shiny,” “dazzling,” and “bright.”
Egregious:
Egregious describes something as “extremely bad,” “egregious behavior,” or “archaic.” It is similar to the word “flagrant,” meaning “conspicuously offensive.”
Endemic:
Endemic describes a thing as “belonging or native to a particular people or country.” It is defined as a “characteristic of or prevalent in a certain field, area, or environment.”
Equanimous:
Equanimous describes someone as “displaying evenness of mind, especially under stress.” It means “even-tempered and balanced.”
Execrable:
Execrable describes a thing as “very bad” or “terrible.” It is defined as “utterly evil or detestable.”
Fastidious:
Fastidious describes something as “being careful that every detail of something is correct.” It is defined as “not liking things to be dirty or untidy.” Something or someone that is “Fastidious” shows excessive delicacy or care.
Feckless:
Feckless describes a thing as “weak” or “ineffective.” It means “worthless” or “irresponsible” as well.
Fecund:
Fecund describes a thing or someone as “fruitful in offspring or vegetation.” They are able to produce a lot of children. It means someone that is intellectually productive or inventive to a marked degree as well. They are able to produce new useful things, especially ideas.”
Friable:
Friable describes a thing as “easily crumbled or pulverized.” It means it is “effortlessly broken up into little fragments.” It means they are easily reduced to a powdered form.
Fulsome:
Fulsome describes someone as “too generous in praising or thanking somebody.” It means that they are characterized by abundance. generous in amount, extent, or spirit.” Additionally, they are known to “be full and well developed.” It means they are “aesthetically, morally, or typically offensive.”
Garrulous:
Garrulous is defined as “talking a lot, especially about unimportant things.” It means “given to prosy, rambling, or tedious talkativeness.” It means pointlessly or annoyingly talkative.
Guileless:
Guileless is defined as “behaving in a very honest way.” People that are “Guileless” do not know how to trick people. It is synonymous with innocent and naive.
Gustatory:
Gustatory describes a thing as “relating to or associated with eating.” It is connected with tasting or the sense of taste.
Heuristic:
Heuristic is defined as “teaching or education encourages someone to learn by discovering things for themselves.” It involves or serves as an aid to learning, discovery, or problem-solving by experimental and especially trial-and-error methods. It describes something “of or relating to exploratory problem-solving techniques that utilize self-educating techniques, such as the evaluation of feedback to improve performance.”
Histrionic:
Histrionic is defined as “behavior that is very emotional and is intended to attract attention in a way that does not seem sincere.” It means “deliberately affected” or “overly dramatic or emotional.” It is commonly used to describe actors, acting, or theater. Histrionic is pronounced as “hi-stree-o-nuhk.”
Hubristic:
Hubristic describes a thing as “exaggerated pride or self-confidence.”
Incendiary:
Incendiary describes a thing as “igniting combustible materials spontaneously.” It is related to or being a weapon, such as a bomb, designed to start fires. Something “incendiary” tends to excite or inflame, like arson. It is something that is scorching and is designed to cause fires. A new meaning of “incendiary” is “to cause strong feelings or violence.”
Insidious:
Incendiary describes a thing as “igniting combustible materials spontaneously.” It is related to or being a weapon, such as a bomb, designed to start fires. Something “incendiary” tends to excite or inflame, like arson. It is something that is scorching and is designed to cause fires. A new meaning of “incendiary” is “to cause strong feelings or violence.”
Insolent:
Insolent is defined as ​”extremely rude and showing a lack of respect.” Someone “insolent” is insultingly contemptuous in speech or conduct. They exhibit boldness or effrontery. Insolent is synonymous with “overbearing” and “impudent.”
Intransigent:
Intransigent describes people as “unwilling to change their opinions or behavior in a way that would be helpful to others.” It is  a refusal to abandon an often extreme position or attitude. Intransigent is synonymous with “uncompromising,” meaning “making no concessions.”
Inveterate:
Inveterate describes people as “always doing something or enjoying something.” It means “done or felt for a long time and unlikely to change. Inveterate is synonymous with “habitual,” meaning “usual for or typical of somebody or something.”
Invidious:
Invidious describes a thing as “of an unpleasant or objectionable nature.” Another meaning of “invidious” is to be likely to offend somebody or make them jealous. Additionally, something or someone “invidious” causes harm or resentment and tends to cause dissatisfaction, hatred, or jealousy. Invidious is synonymous with “obnoxious,” meaning “wanting to be in the same situation as somebody else,” and “envious,” meaning “highly offensive.”
Irksome:
Irksome describes a thing as “tending to irritating or boring.” It means someone or something is ‘annoying” and “tiresome.” Irksome is pronounced as “uhk-sm.”
Jejune:
Jejune describes a thing as “devoid of significance or interest.” It means “lacking nutritive value,” “too simple,” or “dull.”
Jocular:
Jocular describes something “humorous said or done as a joke.” It means something is funny, and someone is joking or enjoys making people laugh. “Jocular” means “habitually jolly.” Jocular is synonymous with “humorous,” meaning “possessing, indicating, or expressive of an ability to be funny.”
Judicious:
Judicious describes a thing or someone as “careful” and “reasonable.” They show good judgment.
Lachrymose:
Lachrymose describes a thing as “tending to cry easily.” Something that makes someone cry is called “Lachrymose.”
Limpid:
Limpid describes a thing as “marked by transparency.” It means that they are clear and straightforward in style. Something “limpid” means that it is serene and untroubled. Limpid is synonymous with “pellucid,” meaning “extremely clear.”
Loquacious:
Loquacious describes a person as “talking a lot.” It means that they are full of excessive talk.
Luminous:
Luminous describes a thing as “emitting or reflecting usually steady, suffused, or glowing light.” It is defined as “relating to light” or “to luminous flux.” Something that is Luminous is “bathed in or exposed to steady light.”
Mannered:
Mannered describes a person as “trying to impress people by being formal and not naturally. It means that they have the type of manners mentioned.” Additionally, it means that they have manners of a specified kind or displaying a particular manner.
Mendacious:
Mendacious describes a person as “not telling the truth given to or characterized by deception or falsehood or divergence from absolute truth.”
Meretricious:
Meretricious describes a person as “relating to a prostitute.” It means they are tawdrily and falsely attractive superficially.
Minatory:
Minatory describes a person as “presenting harm.” It is defined as a “characteristic of or prevalent in a certain field, area, or environment.”
Mordant:
Mordant describes a thing as “biting and caustic in thought, manner, or style.” It means “critical and unkind, but funny.”
Munificent:
Munificent describes a thing as “liberal in giving.”  Someone “munificent” means they are “generous.”
Nefarious:
Nefarious describes a thing as “flagrantly wicked” or “impious.” It is defined as a “characteristic of or prevalent in a certain field, area, or environment.”
Noxious:
Noxious describes a thing as “physically harmful” or “destructive to living beings.” It means “constituting a harmful influence on the mind or behavior.”
Obtuse:
Obtuse describes a person as “unwilling to understand something.” Another meaning of “obtuse” is “an angle that exceeds 90 degrees but less than 180 degrees.”
Parsimonious:
Parsimonious describes a person as “not willing to spend money.” It means they are frugal to the point of stinginess.
Pendulous:
Pendulous describes a thing as “hanging down loosely and moving from side to side.”
Pernicious:
Pernicious describes a thing as “highly injurious or destructive.”
Pervasive:
Pervasive describes a thing as “existing or spreading through a part of something.”
Petulant:
Petulant describes a thing as ‘behaving angrily” or “rude in speech or behavior.”  It is characterized by unpredictable ill humor.
Platitudinous:
Platitudinous describes a thing as “uninteresting because it has been repeated many times before.” It is generally used to describe a “comment” or a “statement.”
Precipitate:
Precipitate is described as “an act of throwing violently.” It means that something bad is happening untimely.
Propitious:
Propitious describes something as “favorably good” or “being a pleasing omen.” Something “propitious” means it is “likely to deliver a great outcome.”
Puckish:
Puckish describes someone as “enjoying playing tricks on other people.
Querulous:
Querulous describes someone as “habitually complaining.” It means that someone is showing that they are “annoyed.”
Quiescent:

[...truncated...]