What is Black Hat SEO: 17 Techniques and 5 Examples - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
Black Hat SEO refers to bad SEO practices that break search engine rules. Black hat SEO involves a number of methods such as link building, hidden text, keyword stuffing, public blog networks, link spam, link farms, article spinning, and many others. Keyword stuffing is one of the most common Black Hat SEO methods. Using the same terms or words repeatedly in the content looks unnatural. It makes a website look spammy. It must be avoided at all costs because search engines are very good at detecting keyword stuffing. Offenders are penalized for using Black Hat SEO strategies. Department store company J. C Penney received a Google penalty for using Black Hat methods of link building in February 2011. J. C Penney ranked at the top of search results for numerous keywords, from “home decor” to “skinny jeans”. There are over 2,000 backlinks found by Doug Pierce, and these links are found on websites of no relevance to J.C. Penney. The website’s topics varied from cars to casinos. What J.C. Penney did was one of the examples of black hat SEO. Black Hat SEO technique resulted in a drop-down of close to seventy positions on Google.
Black Hat SEO is known as “Spamdexing”, a search engine spam. People who practice Black Hat SEO are not considered operating illegally, but they are thought of as “gaming the system”. The term “gaming the system” is the process of manipulating the rules designed to govern a system in an attempt to gain dominance over other users. There are actually four types of SEO, these include On-page SEO, Off-page SEO, Technical SEO, and Local SEO. On-page or On-site SEO is an SEO method that is carried out directly on the page. It involves the optimization of keywords, meta descriptions, headers, and others. Off-page SEO focuses on all SEO activities outside the website. It involves mostly rankings that are not Black Hat SEO-related. Technical SEO has nothing to do with page content. Technical SEO aims at improving the user experience by optimizing the website. Local SEO deals with rankings in a specific location.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What are Black Hat SEO Techniques?
1.1.
1. Cloaking Content (Invisible Text)
1.2.
2. Keyword Stuffing.
1.3.
3. Private Blog Networks
1.4.
4. Link Farms
1.5.
5. Content Farms
1.6.
6. Auto-generated Content
1.7.
7. Content Spinning
1.8.
8. Link Buying (Paid Links)
1.9.
9. URL Hijacking
1.10.
10. Sneaky Redirects
1.11.
11. Abusing Structured Data (Rich Snippets)
1.12.
12. Blog Comment Spam
1.13.
13. Doorway Pages
1.14.
14. Fake Job Postings
1.15.
15. Fake Scholarships
1.16.
16. Fake Google Business Profile Accounts
1.17.
17. Fake GBP Reviews
2.
What are Black Hat SEO Examples?
2.1.
1. Google Chrome Paid Link
2.2.
2. Forbest Selling Links
2.3.
3. Sprint User Generated Content Spam
2.4.
4. J.C Penney’s Black Hat Links from Casino Sites
2.5.
5. Groupon’s Bait and Switch
3.
What does Google Guidelines state for Black Hat SEO?
3.1.
Do Black Hat SEO work in 2022?
3.1.1.
Are there search engines that Black Hat techniques work?
3.2.
Does Black Hat SEO have any benefits for organic growth?
3.3.
Is AI-Generated Content Black Hat?
4.
How to Avoid Black Hat SEO?
4.1.
How to Audit Black Hat SEO methods for a Website?
4.2.
How to Report Black Hat SEO methods?
4.2.1.
Do Reporting Black Hat SEO help for Manual Penalty Team?
4.3.
Why is White Hat SEO better than Black Hat Methods?
4.3.1.
What is Gray Hat SEO?
5.
What are the Black Hat SEO Software?
5.1.
1. XRumer
5.2.
2. SEnuke
5.3.
3. Rankwyz
5.4.
4. Moneyrobot
5.5.
5. Scrapebox
5.6.
6. GSA Search Engine Ranker
5.7.
7. GScraper
5.8.
8. Article Forge
5.9.
9. The Best Spinner
5.10.
10. WordAi
6.
What is the origin of Black Hat SEO?
7.
What is Web Spam?
7.1.
What is SpamBrain of Google?
7.2.
Who is Matt Cutts?
7.2.1.
Why is Matt Cutts related to Black Hat SEO?
What are Black Hat SEO Techniques?
Black Hat SEO techniques are several SEO malpractices that go beyond search engine guidelines. These dirty techniques do not solve for the searcher. Often times these practices end up getting penalized by search engines.
Listed below are Black Hat SEO Techniques.
Cloaking Content (Invisible Text):
Cloaking is a method used in Black Hat SEO that provides users with content or information that is different from what is shown to search engine crawlers. It helps to boost a website’s search engine rankings for certain keywords.
Keyword stuffing:
Keyword stuffing is the process of using the same keywords over and over again in a website’s content.
Private Blog Networks:
Private Blog Networks, or Webrings, are groups of websites that connect to each other. They were created to build domain authority.
Link Farms:
A link farm is a website intended for increasing the link popularity of another site by growing the number of incoming links. A link farm looks like a regular web page, but the majority of the content is hyperlinked, and unrelated to other websites.
Content Farms:
Content farms are websites or companies that create large amounts of content that are usually duplicated, low-quality, and written to ideally fulfill algorithms and rank highly in Search Engine Result Pages (SERP).
Auto-generated Content:
Auto-Generated content is programmed content, which is created using coding from a set of pre-designed templates
Content Spinning:
Content Spinning or Article spinning is a technique to produce seemingly original content from old content by replacing words or phrases using synonyms.
Link Buying (Paid Links):
Link buying is buying links from another website to link to one’s own website. Link buying is a rampant Black Hat SEO method that aims to increase link popularity.
URL Hijacking:
The term URL Hijacking refers to competitors replacing a website’s search position with their own, significantly removing a page from the SERPs with theirs, and taking the page’s traffic.
Sneaky Redirects:
Sneaky Redirects are the way marketers use to lead users to a different web page with the intention of displaying content other than what was made available for search engine crawlers.
Abusing Structured Data (Rich Snippets):
Structured data, known as rich snippets, allows one to change how content is shown on search engine result pages (SERPs).
Blog Comment Spam:
Blog comment spam is a Black Hat SEO method that involves adding a link to a website in blog comments.
Doorway Pages:
A doorway page, in SEO, is a page on a website that has been created to rank for a particular search query. A doorway page is typically just a “Doorway” to the main content, and it is not useful at all to users.
Fake job postings:
Fake job postings are one of the many Black Hat SEO malicious techniques used by scammers. A typical scam page might be an ordinary page convincing people to apply to a certain job position that promises a high salary, which is most of the time too good to be true.
Fake Scholarships:
Fake scholarships are one of the Black Hat SEO techniques that involve setting up a page on a website that promotes a fake scholarship. A fake scholarship aims to target educational institutions to link to that page from their scholarship portals.
Fake Google Business Profile Account:
Google Business Profile Accounts boost search rankings when set up correctly. Scammers and Black Hat SEO practitioners have seen its potential to create fake Google Business Profile Accounts. Scammers are able to use one’s profile, change their name, and other information to accomplish their wrongdoings.
Fake GBP Reviews
: Fake GBP reviews, the same as fake Google Business profiles, are used by scammers to harm a business’s online reputation through fake reviews.
1. Cloaking Content (Invisible Text)
Cloaking is a method used to provide users with content that is different from what is shown to search engine crawlers. Crawlers boost a website’s search engine rankings for certain keywords. Cloaking is part of Black Hat SEO strategies, where it deceives both the user and search engine into believing what the content on the web page is about. One example of cloaking is showing or revealing keywords only to crawlers and not to users because crawlers help websites get a higher page rank. Cloaking is a Black Hat SEO method that must be avoided by investigating if the site has text hidden by CSS. Review the elements of the website and make sure that all pages have a contrast of 4.5 to 1. Cloaking is considered to be a Black Hat SEO technique, and it violates Google’s Webmaster Guidelines. One needs to avoid cloaking at all costs because users are not able to trick search engines. A website is crawled numerous times using different IP addresses. Their strict algorithm will most likely detect cloaking when used on a website.
2. Keyword Stuffing.
Keyword stuffing is the process of using the same keywords over and over again in a website’s content. There are two kinds of keyword stuffing, these are visible and invisible. Visible keyword stuffing uses words or phrases that are not relevant to the topic. Throughout the content, there is an unnecessary repetition of words and phrases. Invisible keyword stuffing conceals repeated use of words in the webpage code. It is the overusing of any words or phrases in the meta and comment tags. Keyword stuffing is one of the most common Black Hat SEO methods. Using the same terms or words repeatedly in the content looks unnatural. It makes a website appear spammy. It must be avoided at all costs because search engines are very good at detecting keyword stuffing. Offenders are penalized by doing Black Hat SEO strategies.
3. Private Blog Networks
Private blog networks, or “webrings,” are groups of websites that connect to each other. They were created to build domain authority. Their goal is to boost each site’s rankings on Google. Private blog networks are used to try to manipulate the algorithm. PBNs were commonly used years ago but are now considered a “black hat” SEO method. There are ways to identify a PBN, like having a similar backlink profile, similar themes, duplicated content, and more. Avoid doing PBN when trying to build links or boost website traffic. Following SEO best practices have more staying power and doesn’t violate Google’s guidelines.
4. Link Farms
A link farm is a website intended to increase the link popularity of another site by increasing the number of incoming links. A link farm appears to look like a regular web page, but the majority of the content is hyperlinked, and unrelated to other websites. Link farms are considered a Black Hat SEO method because the content of websites that link together is often unrelated and low-quality. Search engines easily detect link farms, and they must consider a legitimate long-term optimization strategy. Aside from the penalties from Google and other search engines, Link Farms results in a massive drop in search rankings.
5. Content Farms
Content farms are websites or companies that create large amounts of content that are usually duplicated, low-quality, and written to ideally fulfill algorithms and rank highly in Search Engine Result Pages (SERP). The content is regarded as low-quality and created specifically to attract a high volume of visitors. Content farms are typically FAQs, tutorials, guides, etc. The characteristics of a content farm are that the articles are generally short and have mostly no citations. Several advertisements are on a content farm. The information is often copied from other websites. It contains links to other websites.
6. Auto-generated Content
Auto-Generated content is programmed content, which is created using coding from a set of pre-designed templates. Using software tools to auto-generate content puts one in trouble with Google’s Panda Algorithm, which tackles content with low quality. It leads to the website being penalized and a drop in rankings. However, not all auto-generated content is harmful. Aside from the penalties from Google and other search engines, auto-generated content results in a massive drop in search rankings.
7. Content Spinning
Content spinning, or article spinning, is a technique to produce seemingly original content from old content by replacing words or phrases with synonyms. Content spinning is about generating a large quantity of content in the hope of fooling other algorithms. It is a Black Hat SEO method that automatically creates thousands of versions of the original content. Content spinning is done through “spintax”, a syntax that tells the article spinner what words to swap out. Content spinning is one of the Black Hat SEO strategies that get one’s website penalized for publishing plagiarized content. Aside from the penalties from Google and other search engines, content spinning results in a massive drop in search rankings.
8. Link Buying (Paid Links)
Link buying is buying links from another website to link to one’s own website. Link buying is a rampant Black Hat SEO method that aims to increase link popularity. Google prefers natural link-building that results from the quality and current content. Google will penalize a website if they catch it selling or buying links. Aside from violating Google’s Webmaster Guidelines, link buying is actually expensive. Link buying is one of the Black Hat SEO strategies that violate Google’s guidelines and hurt a website’s ranking, or worse, get it penalized.
9. URL Hijacking
The term URL Hijacking refers to competitors replacing a website’s search position with their own, significantly removing a page from the SERPs with theirs, and taking the page’s traffic. URL hijacking is a Black Hat SEO technique that uses 302 redirects. The term “302” is used to indicate that content has been moved temporarily. A spam site uses a 302 redirect to a different page and sees the page that is using a 302 redirect as the original. It results in confusion with search engines. The search engine will be forced to choose among the two, and often original pages are removed in f

[...truncated...]
