How does Google Rank Search Results: SEO Case Study for Ranking
Skip to content
Initial ranking score and historical data for SEO are two useful concepts to understand a website’s (source) potential to be able to rank for a query network, phrase variations, or topical cluster initially. Initial Ranking and Re-ranking are two different phases of the ranking process of Search Engines. Understanding Initial Ranking and Re-ranking Processes, and Search Engines’ perspective for ranking related processes, is important to be able to initially rank a source for a query network better.
Initial-Ranking and Historical Data Importance for SEO are mainly connected to Semantic SEO along with Technical SEO, Web Page Loading Performance, Source Popularity, and Reputation. During the Initial-ranking and Historical Data SEO Case Study, four websites will be given as an example. These websites’ names and their organic search performance change during the SEO Case Study can be seen below.
10,000 Queries, Daily 300 Clicks, 40,000 Impressions in 20 Days (Initial Ranking), İstanbulBogaziciEnstitu.
33,000 Queries, Daily 11,000 Clicks, 150,000 Impressions in 65 Days (Re-ranking), İstanbulBogaziciEnstitu.
3,500 Queries, Daily 200 Clicks, 2100 Impressions in 30 Days. (Initial Ranking), Vizem.net.
32,000 Queries, Daily 5,000 Clicks, 54,000 Impressions in 30 Days. (Re-ranking), Vizem.net.
416,000 Queries, Daily 2,000 Clicks, 890,000 Impressions in 45 Days. (Initial-Ranking), Site-3 (Not disclosed).
185,000 Queries, 1000 Clicks, 201,000 Impressions in 6 months. (Initial-Ranking), Site-3 (Not disclosed).
One of the newly (entirely) published websites’, how it is ranked initially, and how it is re-ranked by the search engine can be seen below. This example is from Site-3.
The example below is also for the same website and its increase in terms of organic search performance.
Another example can be seen below.
The last situation of Vizem.net can be seen below.
After 30 days, this is the last version of Vizem.net from the Semantic Content Network SEO Case Study.
The three weeks later versions can be seen below.
The last situation of IstanbulBogaziciEnstitu.com can be seen below.
Vizem.net’s last situation can be seen below.
This is the 30-day later view of Vizem.net for the Semantic Content Network SEO Case Study.
The Videos to Explain How Google Ranks are presented below. Semantic SEO Strategy to convince Google’s ranking algorithms is presented below.
An algorithm analysis for Google’s Ranking Systems is below.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
450% Increase in 3 Month: From 60,000 to 330,000 / 2,000 to 11,000 Daily/Monthly Clicks – İstanbulBogaziciEnstitu
1.1.
Broad Core Algorithm Update and Unconfirmed Google Update Effects on the İstanbulBogaziciEnstitu
1.2.
Further Information on the Second Content Network Launch
1.3.
What are the Last Situations of the Content Networks that are Published?
2.
From 0 to 10.000 Daily Organic Clicks in 6 Months – Vizem.net
2.1.
What is the background of Vizem.net?
2.2.
What are the methodological differences between İstanbulBogaziciEnstitu (Site One) and Vizem.net (Site 2) SEO Case Studies?
3.
What is Initial Ranking for SEO?
4.
What is Initial-Ranking Potential for a Source?
5.
How Does Initial Ranking Work for SEO?
5.1.
Why is the Initial Ranking Score useful for Search Engines?
6.
What is Re-ranking for SEO?
7.
How Does Re-ranking Work in SEO?
7.1.
How to Trigger a Re-ranking Process from Search Engines for SEO?
8.
What are the Re-ranking Methods and Criteria of Search Engines?
9.
What is the Relationship between Initial Ranking and Topical Authority?
9.1.
What is the Relationship between Initial-Ranking and Topical Coverage?
9.2.
Query Templates and Document Templates for Ranking Algorithms
10.
What is Semantic Network?
10.1.
What is a Semantic Content Network?
10.1.1.
How does a Search Engine create a Knowledge-base?
10.1.1.1.
What is a Triple?
10.1.1.1.1.
What is the difference between a Knowledge Base and a Knowledge Graph?
10.1.1.1.2.
What is the difference between a Database and a Knowledge Base?
11.
What is Contextual Coverage?
11.1.
Why does Google extract more Contextual Domains?
11.2.
An Example of Contextual Domain, Knowledge Domain, and Contextual Layer
11.3.
What are the Context Qualifiers?
12.
What is the Source Context?
13.
What is Historical Data for SEO?
13.1.
Why is Historical Data Important for a Search Engine?
13.2.
How a Website Can Turn Historical Data and Authority Deficiency into an Advantage for SEO?
14.
How to Use Robots.txt for Initial Ranking in the context of SEO?
14.1.
What is the Initial Evaluation for a Search Engine?
15.
What is the Importance of Internal Links for Initial Ranking in the context of SEO?
15.1.
How many internal links should be used for improving the initial ranking in Google SERP?
15.2.
How does an Internal Link signal the Semantic Relevance of a Web Page to a Topic?
15.3.
How can annotation text affect the Initial-ranking?
16.
What is the Importance of Website Segmentation for Initial Ranking in the Context of SEO?
16.1.
How can a search engine segment a website?
17.
What are the example usage of website segments for initial ranking and re-ranking?
18.
What is the Relation Between the Assigned Initial Ranking Potential of a Source and Semantic SEO?
19.
How to Use Phrase-based Indexing Rules to boost the Initial-ranking Potential of a Website?
19.1.
How can a Search Engine use Phrase-based Indexing for Initial Ranking?
20.
How to Use the Co-occurrence Matrix for Boosting Initial-Ranking Potential of a Source?
21.
How to Generate Questions for Better Contextual Relevance?
22.
Last Thoughts on Initial-ranking, Re-ranking, and the Holistic SEO
450% Increase in 3 Month: From 60,000 to 330,000 / 2,000 to 11,000 Daily/Monthly Clicks – İstanbulBogaziciEnstitu
The first website’s industry is education for students, workers, employees, and any person from daily life with every kind of possible skill improvement. Since the first website is about “paid course selling”, it is easier to find proper query templates, intent templates, and document templates to create a contextual attachment between the query and the document around a specific topic and interest area. Most of the queries include a verb when it comes to improving a talent, or skill via a paid course such as “coding, convincing, managing, concentrating”, and they also include a context with a noun, or object such as “business, motivation, software, resources”. When these different contexts are combined based on a topical map, they can consolidate the expertise and categorical quality of a source for better initial ranking.
Last three-month change of the İstanbulBogaziciEnstitu
During  İstanbulBogaziciEnstitu ’s SEO Project, the advantage of the initial ranking has been used from day one. The organization of the information on the open web by a search engine can be perceived by the search engine’s preference for ranking the documents and clustering the queries, and sources along with contexts. Based on this, for the first website of the “Initial-ranking and Re-ranking SEO Case Study”, the methods below have been used.
Choosing a contextual gap between the educational websites and the audience for the specific topic.
Deciding the best possible centroids for the clustered queries from the specific topic.
Generating the best possible query templates.
Generating questions from the query templates.
Matching the answers with the generated questions.
Connecting the different contextual domains to each other based on related search activities.
Creating the content network as ready to be opened to the Google Search Engine.
Letting Google index all the content networks by noticing “strongly connected components”, and attached “contextually matching queries and documents”.
Last 6 months change of the  İstanbulBogaziciEnstitu.
During the first website’s SEO Case Study, I noticed the things below.
The documents from the content network that are placed higher, and earlier indexed faster than the delayed articles. If a document has been linked before then others within the seed page, and if the “local interconnectivity” of these pages supports this order, it will be indexed than others.
The first indexed documents have changed their rankings in a faster way than others. In other words, the “re-ranking” has been triggered earlier than delayed documents within the content network.
If for certain types of entities, the source doesn’t have enough historical data, the initial ranking will be lowered.
Google can index the same amount of URLs with certain day breaks. It shows that Googlebot creates a frequency and regularity for the indexing. And, when the first indexed pages are successful to overcome the quality, relevance, and accuracy threshold, search engines will increase the frequency and velocity for indexing by decreasing the crawl delay.
Seasonal Events can be used for triggering a re-ranking event.
A seasonal event can include multiple trending topics, and clustered queries, if a new source publishes a new content network with high quality for the specific topic with high accuracy, search engines will prioritize the indexing documents from the same topic while refreshing the old content from its context.
During this prioritization, a new source can have the benefit of creating historical data for the specific topic, and this historical data will help for further indexation, and improve the overall quality, and organic search performance.
Having high impressions from certain types of trending topics, and related queries will improve the average position of the related documents. These documents will protect their rankings if they are successful to overcome the quality threshold by providing better structured factual information organization than existing competitors.
Below, you will find the specific seasonal event, and its effect on the average position and total click count.
On Jun 9, 2021, the related content network has been opened to Google.
The targeted seasonal event was on 28 July.
The target was to have the seasonal SEO Effect for gaining the trust of the search engine by gathering all the historical data possible.
To do that, the contextual vector, hierarchy, neighborhood content, and knowledge domain terms are arranged with related information and facts.
Sentence structures, the related entities, and contextual bridges across the topical map have been created.
The contextual hierarchy is provided with related taxonomy, and also related search activity for the specific topic’s subtopics.
Until 28 July 2021, search engines were indexing between 5-25 pages a day.
After 28 July 2021, it was more than 100 per day, and soon after, all subsections were indexed.
Before the seasonal SEO Event, there was an unconfirmed Google Update.
This specific update was a test for the source, and it is not affected permanently.
The average position before the seasonal event was between 11-13.
During the seasonal event, the average position was 7.6 since Google prioritized the relevant sources.
After the seasonal event, the average position was between 9.0-10.
There was another unconfirmed update on the first day of September.
Until and during the unconfirmed update, the seasonal SEO event’s effect continued, but Google tested the source one more time.
During the update, the average position was 13.8, and the daily average click has dropped to 3,000 – 4,000 from the 12,000.
After the unconfirmed update of Google from the first day of September, it was 28,000 daily clicks with an average position of 8.
During the 5-6-7-8 of September, there was another sequential unconfirmed Google Updates, and Google has normalized the traffic and the average position as 8.6, and the average clicks per day were between 12.000-13.000.
A comparison of the 2020 September and 2021 August shows the true change of the SEO Project in the best way.
This is an example of using the historical data, the initial-ranking advantage with high coverage, and first-day comprehensiveness for a topic by triggering a re-evaluation for all sources during the unconfirmed updates. And, the sections above explain how Google has tested the source thanks to a seasonal trending event and re-ranked the source for further testing.
The comparison of 2020 July and 2021 July.
When enough historical data, and “implicit user-feedback” have been provided, the source has ranked last time with a high confidence score as after the seasonal event with nearly the same average ranking and click amount.
The comparison of March 2021, and August 2021.
Below, you will see the changes in the daily crawl requests for İstanbulBogaziciEnstitu during the SEO Case Study of Initial-ranking and Re-ranking examination.
There is a gradual increase in the crawl requests and the total download size. After the Seasonal SEO Event, the gradual increase continued. And, the unconfirmed Google Updates’ correlation with the requested amount of Googlebot can be seen. Since the crawl data from GSC is partial, still performing a full analysis is not possible, but acquiring the log data for every SEO Project for a log analysis might not be possible.
The indexation process can be seen below.
The “total crawl requests” and the “impressions”, and the “indexation” process, along with the “unconfirmed updates of Google” has an alignment. During the SEO Case Study, you can see the change from SEMrush as below.
The change and the success can be seen from Ahrefs as below.
Below, you will see the change only for the published content network.
All this change happened in 3 months. The same content network can be seen from SEMRush as below.
While I am writing these lines, I have published another topical map with sub-topics that are related to the content network that I have published previously. Below, you will see the graphics for only the newly published content network. And, these graphics are from the second day of launch.
From Ahrefs, the secon

[...truncated...]