Quan Nguyen Texas Realtor
QUAN NGUYEN
BUY A HOME
QUAN
NGUYEN
BUY A HOME
Welcome and thank you for your interest in this website and any subdomains of this website (collectively, the "Website") for Minh Quan T Nguyen  ("us," "we," "our," and the "Company"). By clicking a registration or new account submission button, or by otherwise using services on our websites, networks, mobile applications, or other services provided (collectively, the "Services"), or accessing any content provided by us through the Services, you agree to be bound by the following terms of service, as updated from time to time (these "Terms of Service"), which forms a legally binding agreement between you and Quann Homes and its applicable subsidiaries and/or affiliates.
These Terms of Service apply to your access to and use of the Services, and the information, and products available through the Services.
Updates and Effective Date
At any time, and without notice to you, we may update these Terms of Service to reflect changes in our products or services, technology, and uses of data. If you object to any of the changes we make, your choice is to stop using our Services. Your continued use of our Services after such changes are posted will constitute your agreement to and acceptance of such changes.
Privacy Policy
Our
Privacy Policy
is incorporated herein by reference.
Disclaimer
This Website is provided "as is" without a warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose or non-infringement. Our Services may include inaccuracies or typographical errors. Changes and additions are routinely made to the information herein. We may make additions and/or changes to our Services described herein at any time.
Eligibility Requirements
You represent and warrant that you are at least eighteen (18) years of age and that you have the right, authority, and capacity to enter into, perform your obligations under, and abide by these Terms of Service. If you are under the age of 18, you may not, under any circumstances or for any reason, use the Services.
We may, in our sole discretion, refuse to offer the Services to any person or entity and change its eligibility criteria at any time. You are solely responsible for ensuring that your use of the Services under these Terms of Service is compliant with all laws, rules, and regulations applicable to you. The right to access the Services is revoked where use of the Services is prohibited or to the extent offering, sale or provision of the Services conflicts with any applicable law, rule, or regulation. Further, unless otherwise mutually agreed in writing, the Services are offered only for your use and not for the use or benefit of any third party; and in any event, each person receiving the benefit of the Services must agree to and abide by these Terms of Service as a condition to our obligations.
Non-U.S. Users. The Services are controlled and offered by us from our facilities in the United States of America. We make no representations that the Services are appropriate or available for use in other locations. Those who access or use the Services from other jurisdictions do so at their own risk and are responsible for compliance with local law. By providing information in connection with the Services, you consent to the transfer of your information to, and storage of your information in, the United States, the laws of which may not be as stringent as the laws of the country in which you reside.
Registration & Accounts
To utilize certain Services, you will be required to register for an account ("Account"). You must provide accurate and complete information and keep your Account information updated. You shall not select or use as a username a name (i) of another person with the intent to impersonate that person; (ii) subject to any rights of a person other than you without appropriate authorization; or (iii) that is otherwise offensive, vulgar, or obscene. You are solely responsible for the activity that occurs on your Account and for keeping your Account password secure. You may never use another person?s user account or registration information for the Services without permission. You must notify us immediately of any change in your eligibility to use the Services, any breach of security, or any unauthorized use of your Account. You should never publish, distribute or post login information for your Account. You shall have the ability to delete your Account through a request made to us.
License Grant
Subject to these Terms of Service, we grant each user of the Services a non-exclusive, non-sublicensable, and non-transferable license to access and use the Services and access the listings, insights, reports, and content provided by our Services (collectively, "Content") therein for your personal, non-commercial purposes. Any reproduction, modification, distribution, storage, or other use of the Services, or any Content therein for any other purpose, is expressly prohibited without prior written permission from us. You shall not sell, license, rent, share, publish, or otherwise use or exploit any Content outside the Services for commercial use, in connection with the provision of Services to a third party, or in any way that violates the rights of any third party.
Managing Communication Preferences
Calls and texts:
If you choose to provide your phone number and expressly opt in for marketing messages and calls (for example, by checking an optional consent box), you agree to receive informational and marketing calls and text messages from us at the number you provide, which may be sent using an automatic telephone dialing system or prerecorded/artificial voice. Consent to receive marketing communications is not a condition of purchasing any goods or services or qualifying for a loan. Message and data rates may apply, message frequency may vary, and carriers are not liable for delayed or undelivered messages. You represent that the number you provide is your own and that you are authorized to receive messages at that number. You may opt out of marketing text messages at any time by replying STOP to any message you receive, and you may reply HELP for assistance or contact us at quan@thequantumteam.net for additional information.
Your information will only be shared with our mortgage partner if you have indicated upon registration or form submission that you would like to receive mortgage services. Otherwise, your information will only be shared according to our
Privacy Policy
.
If you do not wish to receive text messages, you may opt out by responding with the SMS message "unsubscribe" to any text message you receive from us. We will send you an SMS message to confirm that you have unsubscribed and after this you will no longer receive SMS messages from us.
Availability of Content
We do not guarantee that any Content will be made available through the Services. We reserve the right, but not the obligation, to (i) remove, edit, or modify any Content in our sole discretion, at any time, without notice to you, and for any reason, or for no reason at all; and (ii) remove or block any Content from the Services.
Rules of Conduct
As a condition of use, you shall not use the Services for any purpose that is prohibited by these Terms of Service. You are responsible for all of your activity in connection with the Services.
You shall not (i) impermissively manipulate the price or description of any Listing; (ii) interfere with other users? Listings; (iii) recruit, solicit, or encourage any other user to use third party services or websites that are competitive to ours; (iv) use the Services to find a Listing, Landlord, Buyer, Seller, or Renter and then complete a transaction independent of the Services in order to circumvent the obligation to pay any fees related to our provision of the Services; (v) take any action that imposes or may impose (as determined by us in our sole discretion) an unreasonable or disproportionately large load on our or our third party providers? infrastructure; (vi) interfere or attempt to interfere with the proper working of the Services or any activities conducted in connection with the Services; (vii) bypass, circumvent or attempt to bypass or circumvent any measures we may use to prevent or restrict access to the Services (or other accounts, computer systems or networks connected to the Services); (viii) run any form of auto-responder or "spam" on the Services; (ix) use manual or automated software, devices, or other processes to "crawl" or "spider" any page of the Website; (x) harvest or scrape any Content from the Services; (xi) take any action in violation of our guidelines and policies; (xii) decipher, decompile, disassemble, reverse engineer, or otherwise attempt to derive any source code or underlying ideas or algorithms of any part of the Services, except to the limited extent that applicable laws specifically prohibit such restriction; (xiii) modify, translate, or otherwise create derivative works of any part of the Services; (xiv) infringe any patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright, right of publicity, or other right of any other person or entity or violates any law or contractual duty (see our DMCA Copyright Policy); or (xv) copy, rent, lease, distribute, or otherwise transfer any of the rights that you receive hereunder. You shall abide by all applicable local, state, national, and international laws and regulations.
Our Additional Rights. We also reserve the right, without any obligation, to access, read, preserve, and disclose any information as we reasonably believe is necessary to (i) satisfy any applicable law, regulation, legal process or governmental request; (ii) enforce these Terms of Service, including investigation of potential violations hereof; (iii) detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security or technical issues; (iv) respond to user support requests; (v) fulfill your requests for services; or (vi) protect the rights, property or safety of us, our users, and the public.
Equal Housing Opportunity
We fully support the principles of the Fair Housing Act (Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968), as amended, which generally prohibits discrimination in the sale, rental, and financing of dwellings, and in other housing-related transactions, based on race, color, national origin, religion, sex, familial status (including children under the age of 18 living with parents of legal custodians, pregnant women, and people securing custody of children under the age of 18), and handicap (disability).
User Content
All Content provided by users (collectively "User Content"), whether publicly posted or privately transmitted, is the sole responsibility of the person who originated such User Content. You represent that all User Content provided by you is accurate, complete, up-to- date, and in compliance with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
The following standards apply to any and all User Content. You must ensure that all User Content posted by you complies with all applicable laws and regulations. Without limiting the foregoing, you must not post User Content that:
infringes any right of any other person or entity or violates any law or contractual duty;
you know is false, misleading, untruthful, or inaccurate; is unlawful, threatening, discriminatory, hateful, abusive, harassing, defamatory, libelous, deceptive, fraudulent, invasive of another?s privacy, tortious, obscene, vulgar, pornographic, offensive, or profane; contains or depicts nudity or sexual activity; promotes bigotry, racism, hatred, or harm against any individual or group; or is otherwise inappropriate as determined by us in our sole discretion;
constitutes unauthorized or unsolicited advertising, junk, or bulk e-mail (i.e. spamming);
contains software viruses or any other disabling computer codes, files, or programs that are designed or intended to disrupt, damage, limit, or interfere with the proper function of any software, hardware, or telecommunications equipment, or to damage or obtain unauthorized access to any system, data, password, or other information of ours or of any third party;
impersonates, bullies, stalks, or intimidates any person or entity, including any of our employees or representatives, or falsifies or misrepresents yourself or your personal information;
includes any confidential information, violates the rights of others (including, without limitation, the rights of publicity and privacy and rights under a contract), or otherwise contains any material that could give rise to any civil or criminal liability under applicable laws or regulations, or that otherwise may be in conflict with these Terms of Service.
User Content License Grant. By submitting User Content through the Services, you hereby do and shall grant us a worldwide, non-exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free, fully paid, sublicensable, and transferable license to use, edit, modify, truncate, aggregate, reproduce, distribute, prepare derivative works of, display, perform, and otherwise fully exploit the User Content in connection with the Services and our (including successors? and assigns?) businesses, including, without limitation, for promoting and redistributing part or all of the Services (and derivative works thereof) in any media formats and through any media channels (including, without limitation, third party websites and feeds), and including after your termination of your Account or the Services. For clarity, the foregoing license grants do not affect your other ownership or license rights in your User Content. You represent and warrant that you have all rights to grant such licenses to us without infringement or violation of any third party rights.
Intellectual Property Rights
You acknowledge and agree that the Services and the Content, including User Content owned by us, our licensors, or other providers of such mate

[...truncated...]