Blond vs Blonde: Difference between Them and How to correctly use them - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
“Blond” and “blonde” are two different terms that differ both in spelling and meaning. The word “blond” is being used as a noun to describe a man with yellowish hair or as an adjective to describe anything male that has a yellowish color. On the other hand, “blonde,” spelled with an “e,” is similar to “blond,” which is a noun that refers to someone with pale yellow hair color or an adjective that describes a thing that has a yellow color. However, “blonde” is associated with a female subject. “Blond” and “blonde” are commonly used to describe people living in Northern Europe.
The comparison between “blond” and “blonde” are listed below.
“Blond” is used to describe masculine objects.
“Blond” is used as a noun.
“Blond” is used as an adjective.
“Blond” is the preferred spelling in the US.
“Blond” is a French word.
“Blonde” is used to describe feminine objects.
“Blonde” is used as an adjective.
“Blonde” is used as a noun.
“Blonde” is a French word.
“Blonde” is the preferred word in British English.
It is highly important to know which one refers to a male or female subject in deciding whether to use “blond” or “blonde in a particular sentence.  The distinguishing factor to identify the sex or gender of the subject is the pronoun “he”, “she”, “his”, and “her.” A sentence that has “he” and “his” must use “blond” as it is associated with a male subject. Meanwhile, a sentence with “she” and “her” must utilize “blonde” since the pronouns are talking about a female subject.
Some example sentences of the word “blond” include, “Have you seen that blond guy over there? He’s the culprit for the chaos that happened in the cafeteria last week.” “It is confirmed that Jennie is dating that blond guy from section C because I saw them in an ice cream parlor yesterday.” The term “blond” was used correctly in the example sentences due to its association with the word “guy” which is used to describe a male person. On the other hand, some examples of the word “blonde” spelled with an “E” are “She looks so sexy and beautiful with her blonde hair and red dress.” “I always think of blonde women as either Europeans or North Americans.” The word “Blonde” was used exactly as intended, mainly because it was linked to a female subject in the sentence.
Every writer asks, “why to know the difference between “blond” and “blonde” for content writing and marketing?” It is important to know the difference between these words in order to write better content and communicate in a healthier way. Content writing and marketing are very particular with the usage of words, especially in terms of sex and gender description. The proper use of terms is highly significant since it enables readers and users to clearly understood the context and information written in the content and marketing. Misuse of “blond” and “blonde” in content writing and marketing causes misinterpretation and confusion. Therefore, the difference between “blond” and “blonde” must be learned, especially since they are very sex- and gender-specific.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does “Blond” Mean?
1.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Blond”?
1.2.
When to use the word “Blond” in a sentence?
1.3.
How often is the word “Blond” used in a sentence?
1.4.
What are the synonyms of “Blond”?
2.
What does “Blonde” Mean?
2.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Blonde”?
2.2.
When to use the word “Blonde” in a sentence?
2.3.
How often is the word “Blonde” used in a sentence?
3.
What are the synonyms of “Blonde”?
3.1.
How is the pronunciation of “Blond” and “Blonde”?
4.
Comparison between “Blond” and “Blonde”
5.
Why are “Blond” and “Blonde” misused and interchangeably in English?
5.1.
Are “Blond” and “Blonde” the most commonly misused English words?
5.2.
What are the other similar Misused Word Pairs like “Blonde” and “Blond” in English?
5.3.
What are the things should a content writer consider in using the word “Blond” and “Blonde”?
5.4.
Can content writers use “Blond” and “Blonde” in one sentence?
6.
How do Content Writers use “Blond” and “Blonde” in their articles?
6.1.
Do Content Writers use “Blond” and “Blonde” in the wrong way?
6.2.
Do Misused Words such as “Blonde” and “Blond” affect SEO and UX?
6.3.
Are both “Blond” and “Blonde” considered Adjectives?
What does “Blond” Mean?
“Blond” is a word that defines a man or a male subject that has hair with a color pale or light yellow. “Blond” was acquired from the Old French words “Blund” and “Blont” which means a color between golden and light chestnut. The first usage of the English term “blond” was dated way back in 1481. It was then reintroduced in the 17th century from the French language.  According to the Oxford English Dictionary, “blond” is defined as “(of hair) fair or pale yellow.” “Blond” is a commonly used English word to describe the yellowish fair hair color. Knowing the definition and meaning of “blond” is important in daily life, especially if it is an adjective. It is necessary to carefully analyze the words used in a sentence because the addition of letters and removal of letters in a word automatically changes the meaning of the sentence.
What are the sentence examples with “Blond”?
Listed below are the sentence examples with the word “Blond.”
Mom had passed on his curly
blond
hair to John and Anna. The example sentence has the adjective “blond” which was used to describe the physical appearance of the hair.
The woman looked like an ancient Greek queen with
blond
hair and chiseled features. The “blond” in the sentence example is another adjective that clearly states the physical characteristic of the subject.
She flipped a few strands of her blond hair back in place. The sentence example has “blond” which serves as an adjective that defines the color of the hair of the subject.
He grimaced and turned to see the tall
blond
striding toward her office. The example has utilized “blond” as a noun because it is the subject itself, and the word was not used to describe the subject.
The man beside him was
blond
, her eyes pale blue. The sentence uses “blond” as a noun because it is a subject, and not treated merely as a description.
When to use the word “Blond” in a sentence?
The word “blond” is used to describe nouns for man which means the yellowish hair color of a man. The synonyms of the word “blond” are “fair,” “light,” “light-colored,” “light-toned,” “yellow,” “flaxen,” etc. The word “blond” must be used when a sentence is talking about something that is a shade of yellow, like a head of hair or the color of an object. An example of “blond” that pertains to a male subject is, “We saw a blond guy pass this area earlier, but we did not remember his face.” The usage of “blond” in the sentence is correct, as the subject needs to be properly named by its primary noticeable characteristic. An example of “blond” as a description of an object is, “The motif of their wedding is blond, which makes it unique and eye-catching.” The word “blond” went in the right place in the sentence, mostly because it was able to describe a physical trait of the subject.
How often is the word “Blond” used in a sentence?
“Blond” is often used once in a sentence to describe a particular color of things, especially when linked to a male subject. The term “blond” usually exists one time only in the sentence, mainly because using it twice or thrice makes the sentence grammatically incorrect. For instance, in a sentence “I like all the gifts that I have received, the t-shirt is blond, the shoes are blond, and the watch is blond.” The sentence example is grammatically incorrect because it is redundant, and using one “blond” word is already sufficient in the sentence to properly describe the subjects.
What are the synonyms of “Blond”?
There are a lot of synonyms for the word “blond.” Some of them are “ash blond,” “silvery,” “golden,” “yellowish,” “yellow,” “light-toned,” “fair,” etc. Some examples of synonyms are “I normally use dark blonde or dark “ash blonde”(blond),” “They are greenish gray to “yellowish” (blond) with many large round dark spots.” There are variations of the word “blond.” Common examples include the following: “ash-blond,” “blond/flaxen,” “dirty blond,” “golden blond,” “honey blond,” “platinum blond,” and “sandy blond.” These variations of the word “blond” have been defined to describe the different shades and sources of hair color more accurately.
What does “Blonde” Mean?
The word “blonde” is used as a noun. It describes a woman or girl with fair hair. However, “blonde” is sometimes used as an adjective. The word “blonde” is usually spelled in British English. The word “blonde” was derived from french, which has grammatical gender depending on whether they are applied to man or woman. It was considered in French and reinstated in English in the 17th century. The first appearance of blondes was 11,000 years ago. Naturally, blonde hair is found in people living in the northern half of Europe. According to the Oxford Dictionary data, it is likely to be spelled as “blonde” as a used reference to women. The word “blonde” is a common word used in the English language in the 20th century. Knowing the definition and meaning of “blonde” is important in daily life, especially if it is an adjective. It is necessary to carefully analyze the words used in a sentence because the addition of letters and removal of letters in a word automatically changes the meaning of the structure.
What are the sentence examples with “Blonde”?
Listed below are the sentence examples with the word “Blonde.”
“All evening peter paid attention to a blue-eyed, plump, and pleasing little
blonde
, the wife of one of the provincial officials.” The example sentence used the adjective version word “blonde” to be one of the descriptions of the female subject in the sentence.
“Anna was of above-average height with long, dark
blonde
curls loosely captured at her neck.” The “blonde” in the sentence example was used as an adjective that describes the subject.
“Then he glowered with a smile to match Dean’s. I saw you and your
blonde
friend cuddled up down at the park.” The sentence example used “blonde” as a noun since it pertains to a blonde person. The “blonde friend” is the subject itself.
“Simpson was studying the Eskimo in and around Victoria I., where they discovered the so-called
blonde
Eskimo, who had never previously encountered white men.” The term “blonde” in the example was used as a noun to name a particular thing.
“She shook her head and twisted to face the corner, where the
blonde
Oracle and brunette Healer sat together.” The sentence example uses the noun “Blonde” as a part of the name of the subject.
When to use the word “Blonde” in a sentence?
The word “blonde” in french is described as feminine. It regularly extends to English adjectives, mostly in British English. The synonym of “Blonde” is “fair” which means light-colored, particularly white or yellow. There are variations of the word “blonde.” Common examples include the following; “ash-blond,” “blond/flaxen,” “dirty blond,” “golden blond,” “honey blond,” “platinum blond,” and “sandy blond.” These variations of the word “blonde” have been defined to describe the different shades and sources of hair color more accurately.
How often is the word “Blonde” used in a sentence?
The word “blonde” is similar to “blond” which is often used only once in the sentence. Using “Blonde” once in sentences is already enough to properly describe a particular subject or topic. For instance, “The dress and bag we bought for shopping are all blonde which suits my hair color.” The usage of “blonde” twice or thrice is considered redundant, which makes the sentence unpleasant to read and grammatically incorrect. “Blonde” is a sex- and gender-specific word, and must be used with a female subject only.
What are the synonyms of “Blonde”?
The synonyms for the word “blonde” are  “silvery,” “ash blond,” “golden,” “yellowish,” “yellow,” “light-toned,” “fair,” etc. Some examples of synonyms are “It is a silvery (blonde) white metal which burns on heating in the air,” and “He combed and arranged his golden (blonde) hair.” There are variations of the word “blonde.” Common examples include the following: “Silver Blonde,” “strawberry blonde,” “golden blonde,” “auburn blonde,” and “black blonde.” These variations of the word “blonde” have been defined to describe the different shades and sources of hair color more specifically.
How is the pronunciation of “Blond” and “Blonde”?
The word “blond” is common in the US that describes a man or boy with golden hair color, and it is pronounced as “bla:nd.” The word “blonde” is the preferred spelling in the UK, and it is pronounced as “blo:nd.” The words “blond” and “blonde” are pronounced the same, even though the definition is the same as well, The difference between these words is the reference to one letter spelling. The word “blond” refers to a man while the word “blonde” refers to a woman.
Comparison between “Blond” and “Blonde”
Listed below is the table that shows the comparison between the words “blond” and “blonde.”
Blond
Blonde
Definition
The word “blond” describes as a noun for males.
The word “blonde” is more commonly used for females
Context
“Blond” is used as a noun and an adjective.
The word ”blonde” is used as a noun and an adjective.
Example sentences
1. He has
blond
hair.
2.
Blond
hair is very popular nowadays.
1. She decided to get
blonde
highlights.
2. She used to have
blonde
hair.
Why are “Blond” and “Blonde” misused and interchangeably in English?
The word “blond” and “blonde” are commonly misused and interchangeable words in English. The reason for that is the pronunciation. Another difference between “blond” and “blonde” is their spelling and how they are used in a sentence. The word “blond” is used to define a man or male that has golden hair color, and it is commonly used in American English. The word “

[...truncated...]