Appraise vs Apprise: Difference between Them - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
“Appraise” and “apprise” are two of the most commonly misused and confused words. “appraise” is all about assessing the value or quantity of a subject. “Appraise” is used as a verb to denote a judgment or need to be considered. Meanwhile, “apprise” is a verb that is used with objects that denote giving notice, informing, or advising. It is often followed by the preposition “of.” There are common misinterpretations and misuse of “appraise” and “apprise,” especially for those who are not non-native English speakers or have a different mother tongue. The difference between the words “appraise” and “apprise” is mostly highlighted in their meaning, spelling, and usage. However, “appraise” and “apprise” are homonyms, meaning the words sound alike.
The differences and comparisons between “appraise” and “apprise” are listed below.
“Appraise” is used to assess the value or quantity of a subject.
“Appraise” is often used word for situations when something needs to be considered or needs judgment.
“Appraise” is used in a sentence as a verb.
“Appraise” is an eight-letter word, that has an “A” after the letter “R” and before the letter “I.”
“Apprise” is used to utilize situations in which something needs to be brought to the knowledge.
“Apprise” is spelled as A-P-P-R-I-S-E, without the letter “A” after the letter “R” and before the letter “I.”
“Apprise” is commonly misused and confused with the word ‘Appraise” because the words have almost the same spelling.
“Apprise” is a verb that is used with objects “to give notice”, “inform” or “advise.”
Generally, it is essential to identify when and which words must be used in a sentence to deliver the correct message or information. Understanding the meaning allows the writer to identify in which context “appraise” and “apprise” are used to convey a clear message. Words that look and sound alike are often misused. Furthermore, it results in mistakes in spelling and in grammar. It is a must that writers do proofread to check if there are any spelling mistakes or grammar errors in their articles.
Proper usage of words like “appraise” and “apprise” in a sentence matters because one must convey factual and accurate information. Following are the example sentences using the words “appraise” and “apprise.” “Anna is seated at her desk, keen to appraise the artistic works coming through the door.” “Appraise” is correctly used, indicating that Anna is making a judgment about the artistic works coming through the door. Another word example is “apprise.” “Karen apprise Anna of the changes made to the document before publication.” The sentence is correct because the word “apprise” means Karen gives notice to Anna of the changes made to the document.
“Why to know the difference between “appraise” and “apprise” for content writing and marketing?” The answer to that is all about how it is beneficial to write better content and communicate in a healthier way. Processing knowledge regarding the distinction between the two words helps both content writers and marketers convey appropriate messages to audiences and readers. Proper usage of “appraise” and “apprise” offers a way to correct the structure of sentences and avoid the possibility of errors and incorrect grammar. Furthermore, knowing the difference between “appraise” and “apprise” indicates that the content writer and marketer have expertise in writing and making content, and thus readers put trust in their crafts.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does “Appraise” Mean?
1.1.
What are the Sentence Examples with “Appraise”?
1.2.
When to Use the word “Appraise” in a Sentence?
1.3.
What are the Synonyms of “Appraise”?
1.3.1.
What are the Antonyms of “Appraise”?
1.4.
How to spell “Appraise”?
1.5.
What are the prepositions and helper words for Appraise?
2.
What does “Apprise” Mean?
2.1.
What are the Sentence Examples with “Apprise”?
2.2.
When to Use the Word “Apprise” in a sentence?
2.3.
What are the Synonyms of “Apprise”?
2.3.1.
What are the Antonyms of “Apprise”?
2.4.
How to Spell “Apprise”?
2.5.
What are the prepositions and helper words for Apprise?
3.
Comparison between “Appraise” and “Apprise”
4.
Why are “Appraise” and “Apprise” misused and interchangeably in English?
4.1.
Are “Appraise” and “Apprise” the most commonly misused English words?
4.2.
What are the other similar Misused Word Pairs like “Apprise” and “Appraise” in English?
5.
How do Content Writers use “Appraise” and “Apprise” in their articles?
5.1.
Do Content Writers use “Appraise” and “Apprise” in the wrong way?
5.2.
Do Misused Words such as “Appraise” and “Appraise” Apprise SEO and UX?
What does “Appraise” Mean?
The word “appraise” is assessing a subject’s value or quality. The origin of the word “appraise” came from the Old French apriser “apraise, set a price on” or directly from the Late Latin appretiare“value, estimate”, from ad “to” + pretium “price.” The original English spelling of the word “appraise” is “apprize” altered by the influence of praise. The etymology of the word “appraise” dates back to about 1784 in American English, from appraise + -al. The Oxford Dictionary defines the word “appraise” as considering or examining somebody or something and forming an opinion about them or it. People started to use the word “appraise” in the 19th century. The word “appraise” is a verb commonly used in the English language. It is an important word used in daily life because it means figuring out the worth of something in the marketplace or on the field.
What are the Sentence Examples with “Appraise”?
Listed below are the sentence examples with “Appraise”
“Anna stepped back to
appraise
her workmanship.” The word “appraise” is used in the sentence to emphasize the value of Anna’s workmanship.
“John said the board would continue to
appraise
its successes and failures.” The word “appraise” is used in the sentence to deliver that the board is assessing the quality of their work.
“An antique and collectibles appraiser is on-site from noon to 3 p.m. to
appraise
heirlooms and collectibles.” The word “appraise” is used in the sentence to tell the audience that the heirlooms and collectibles are being to be judged in their value.
“Managers must
appraise
all crew members.” The word “appraise” is used in the sentence to show that the crew members need to be judged.
When to Use the word “Appraise” in a Sentence?
The word “appraise” is used in a sentence as a verb. It is often used in situations in which something needs to be considered or requires judgment. The word “appraise” is used when saying how much something is worth after carefully examining it, or to give an official opinion about the value. It is regularly mistaken for the word “apprise”. “Appraise” and “apprise” are two misused words. However, both words are possible to use in one sentence.
What are the Synonyms of “Appraise”?
“Appraise” is a word that has several synonyms. Some of these synonyms include, evaluate, assess, judge, measure, examine, and others. These words mean to calculate or measure something. The word “appraise” is commonly used in the English language. However, these synonyms are used as an alternative in constructing sentences. For example, “Anna stepped back to assess (appraise) her workmanship”. Another example is, “John said the board would continue to evaluate (appraise) its successes and failures”. The two words from the sample sentences are used as an alternative for the word “appraise”.
What are the Antonyms of “Appraise”?
Listed below are the antonyms of “Appraise”.
Ignore: “
Ignore” means to refuse to take notice of or acknowledge.
Neglect:
The term “neglect” means all to care for properly.
Criticize:
The word criticize” indicates the faults disapprovingly
Disqualify:
“Disqualify” means to pronounce (someone) ineligible for an office, activity, or competition because of an offense or infringement
.
Inactivity: “
Inactivity” means to be a reluctance to take action; apathy.
Disapproval: “
Disapproval” is all about the possession or expression of an unfavorable opinion.
Reject:
The term “reject” means a person or thing dismissed as failing to meet standards or satisfy tastes.
How to spell “Appraise”?
“Appraise” is composed of eight letters. The correct spelling of the word “appraise” is A-P-P-R-A-I-S-E. The word “appraise” is a verb that is often used in situations in which something needs to be “considered or needs judgment.” It is commonly misspelled as “apprise.” The word “apprise” means to inform or tell. Use the word “appraise” when denoting to judge something and when saying how much something is worth after carefully assessing its value and quality of it. Most of the time, “appraise” is confused and commonly misused because of the word “apprise”. “Appraise” and “apprise” are different from each other in terms of their spelling and meaning. Always remember that “appraise” is spelled with an “A” after the letter “R” and before the letter “I,” while “apprise” does not contain a letter “A” between the letter “R” and “I”.
What are the prepositions and helper words for Appraise?
There are numerous prepositions to use with the word “appraise”. The most common preposition and helper for the word “appraise” is the word “to”. The preposition ”to” is used too with the word “appraise.” Here is one sample sentence, “The woman relaxed somewhat and lifted her face to appraise Tony.” The word “appraise” is in the process when used with the preposition “to.”
What does “Apprise” Mean?
The word “apprise” is defined as informing or telling someone. The origin of the word “apprise” came from the French “appris”, past participle of apprendre “to inform, teach”, literally “to lay hold of (in the mind).” From Latin apprehendere “to take hold of, grasp” mentally or physically, from ad “to” plus prehendere “to seize.” The etymology of the word “apprise” was established in about the 1680s. The Oxford Dictionary defines the word “apprise” telling or informing somebody of something.” People started to use the word “apprise” in the late 17th century. The word “apprise” is a verb commonly used in the English language. It is an important word used in daily life because its meaning means to inform or to give notice to somebody. The word “apprise” is a verb that is mostly used on a daily basis, to express something essential to a person.
What are the Sentence Examples with “Apprise”?
Listed below are the sentence examples with “Appraise”
“I’m grateful to my cousin for taking the time to
apprise
me of our grandmother’s illness.” The word “apprise” is used in the sentence alternately with the word “inform.”
“Please
apprise
me of any changes to the document before publication.” The word “apprise” is used in the sentence to remind someone to inform regarding details.
“I expect my son’s teacher to
apprise
me of his academic struggles.” The word “apprise” is used in the sentence alternately with the word “inform.”
“I scheduled a meeting for this afternoon to
apprise
my boss of the project status.” The word “apprise” is used in the sentence to tell someone important information.
When to Use the Word “Apprise” in a sentence?
The word “apprise” is used in a sentence as a verb. It is often used when something needs to be brought to the knowledge. The word “apprise” is used when giving notice or advice to a certain situation. It is oftentimes mistaken for the word “appraise”. “Appraise” and “apprise” are two misused words. However, both words are possible to use in one sentence.
What are the Synonyms of “Apprise”?
“Apprise” is a word that has several synonyms. Some of these synonyms include inform, notify, advice, tell, brief, and others. These words mean to impart knowledge of some fact, state of affairs, or event. The word “apprise” is commonly used in the English language. However, these synonyms are used as an alternative in constructing sentences. For example, “Anna came to inform (apprise) us that the work had been successfully completed.” Another example is, “The executive assistant came to notify (apprise) us that the erection of the monster machine had been successfully completed.” The two words from the sample sentences are used as an alternative for the word “appraise.”
What are the Antonyms of “Apprise”?
Listed below are the antonyms of Apprise.
Conceal:
The word “conceal” means to keep something secret, to prevent it from being known or noticed.
Hide:
“Hide” means to put or keep out of sight.
Secret:
The term “secret” means something that is kept or meant to be kept unknown or unseen by others.
Indirect:
The term “indirect” means not directly caused by or resulting from something.
Dishonest:
“Dishonest” means behaving or being prone to behave in an untrustworthy or fraudulent way.
Refrain:
“Refrain” means to stop oneself from doing something.
How to Spell “Apprise”?
“Apprise” is composed of seven letters. The correct spelling of the word “apprise” is A-P-P-R-I-S-E. The word “apprise” is a verb that is often used in situations in which someone needs to “inform or tell” about something. It is commonly misspelled as “appraise.” The word “appraise” means to be “considered or needing judgment.” Use the word “apprise” when denoting information about something that needs to be brought out. Most of the time, “apprise” is confused and misused because of the word “appraise.” “Appraise” and “apprise” are homonyms, which means that the two words have similar sounds but differ in meaning. “Appraise” is spelled with an “A” after the letter “R” and before the letter “I.”
What are the prepositions and helper words for Apprise?
Prepositions such as “to” or “of” are used along with the word “apprise.” For example, “Tony saw no reason to apprise the committee of what had happened.” Another example is “Ali’s apprise of the insights she receives from her speech last night.” The preposition “to” when used with the word “apprise” entails that someone is being or going to inform about something

[...truncated...]
