302 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The 302 HTTP Status Code means that the resource being referenced has been found. The 302 HTTP Status Code reference is temporarily relocated to the URL specified by the Location header in the request. In 302 HTTP Status Code, when a program redirects to this page but search engines do not update their connections to the resource, it is referred to as ‘link juice’ not being sent off to the new URL in ‘SEO speak’. Regardless of whether the detail requires the strategy and the body not to be adjusted when the redirection is performed, not all client specialists adjust here – you can in any case track down this kind of messed with programming out there. It is subsequently prescribed to set the 302 HTTP Status Code just as a response for GET or HEAD method and to utilize 307 Temporary Redirect all things being equal, as the strategy change is expressly precluded in that case. While on the other hand, the difference to the 300 HTTP Status Codes Multiple Choices diverts status response is that this Status Code request has more than one potential response.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does the 302 HTTP Status Code Mean?
1.1.
How to Use 302 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
2.
How to Check the 302 HTTP Status Code?
2.1.
Which HTTP Methods are used with 302 HTTP Status Code?
3.
What are the Related HTTP Response Headers with 302 HTTP Status Code?
4.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of the 302 HTTP Status Code?
5.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to the 302 HTTP Status Code?
What does the 302 HTTP Status Code Mean?
The 302 HTTP Status Code indicates that the server has received a request ad is the immediate sibling of the 301 HTTP Status Code. The 302 HTTP Status Code Found is used for the purpose of temporary redirection. Due to the transitory nature of the redirect, client browsers will be redirected to the given URL; however, indexing systems such as search engines will not be affected by the redirect and will continue to refer to the resource as before. Additionally, client browsers may modify the content or method of the request; thus, when you wish to temporarily redirect a POST, use 307 HTTP Status Code instead.
How to Use 302 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
To use the 302 HTTP Status Code in a site, the web developer should leverage backend tools for the webserver for scaling, efficiency, and the capacity to respond to client requests and demands immediately. The 302 HTTP Status Code with the “header” function may be used by a developer in JavaScript, Python, Ruby, PHP, Java, C#.Net, Perl, C++, Scala, and Kotlin. In using these tools the web developer make use of one of the provided URIs presuming that the described resource has been assigned another super durable URI and that all future references to this resource will make use of that URI.
How to Check the 302 HTTP Status Code?
To check the 302 HTTP Status Code use the web browser network tab and developer tools for every resource that the client uses.
Which HTTP Methods are used with 302 HTTP Status Code?
There are two methods that can be used with the 302 HTTP Status Code. See below.
The GET method can be used in the 302 HTTP Header Status Code. The GET is an entity correlating to the particular request of resource and is delivered in the response.
The HEAD method can be used in the 302 HTTP Header Status Code. The HEAD is an element header field relating to the mentioned asset that is sent in the reaction with no message-body.
What are the Related HTTP Response Headers with 302 HTTP Status Code?
There are related HTTP Response Headers with the 302 HTTP Status Code. Below are the related HTTP Response Headers with 302 HTTP Status Codes..
308 Permanent Redirect HTTP Status Code: The 308 Permanent Redirect HTTP Status Code is related to the 302 HTTP Status Code because they are both redirection messages. The
308 Permanent Redirect HTTP Status Code
is the direct sibling of the 307 HTTP Status Code.
306 unused HTTP Status Code: The
306 Permanent Redirect HTTP Status Code
is related to the 302 HTTP Status Code because they are both redirection messages. This response code is no not in use; instead, it is reserved. It was previously used in an earlier version of the HTTP/1.1 protocol.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of the 302 HTTP Status Code?
You can see the table that shows the browser’s compatibility of the 302 HTTP Status Code below.
Browser Name
Browser Compatibility of 302 HTTP Status Code
Chrome
YES
Firefox
YES
Internet Explorer
YES
Opera
YES
Safari
YES
WebView Android
YES
Chrome Android
YES
Firefox for Android
YES
What are the other Similar Status Codes to the 302 HTTP Status Code?
There are other similar HTTP Status Codes to 302 HTTP Status Code. The following are listed below.
301 Moved Permanently HTTP Status Code: The
301 Moved Permanently HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 302 HTTP Status Code because they are both redirection messages. This lets the client know that the resource they look for has been moved permanently, and afterward presents the URL to the new area of the resource.
303 See Other HTTP Status Code: The
303 See Other HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 302 HTTP Status Code because they are both redirection messages. This Status Code lets the client know that the divert doesn’t redirect to the recently transferred assets but to another page, similar to a thank you page or status screen page.
304 Not Modified HTTP Status Code: The
304 Not Modified HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 302 HTTP Status Code because they are both redirection messages. This lets the client know that the resource they are attempting to get has not changed, so they ought to hold the duplicate they have.
307 Temporary Redirect HTTP Status Code: The
307 Temporary Redirect HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 302 HTTP Status Code because they are both redirection messages. This response code is sent by the server when it plans to unequivocally advise the client to keep up with the strategy initially utilized for the request.
Author
Recent Posts
Follow SEO
Holistic SEO
SEO Research Department
at
Holistic SEO & Digital
Holistic SEO & Digital has been built by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR. Holistic SEO is the process of developing integrated digital marketing projects with every aspect including Coding, Natural Language Processing, Data Science, Page Speed, Digital Analytics, Content Marketing, Technical SEO, and Branding. Structured, Semantic Search Engine improves its ability to detect the real-world entities, today. Having a simple website is not enough anymore. To show that your brand is authoritative, trustworthy, and expert on its own niche, you need entity-based Search Engine Optimization Projects. Holistic SEO & Digital's main focus is on improving the brand's organic visibility and growth potential.
Follow SEO
Latest posts by Holistic SEO
(
see all
)
48 Online Shopping and Consumer Behavior Statistics, Facts and Trends
- August 22, 2023
B2B Marketing Statistics
- August 22, 2023
38 Podcast Statistics, Facts, and Trends
- August 22, 2023
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
TechSEO
302 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods
by Holistic SEO
time to read: 4 min
TechSEO
303 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
TechSEO
428 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
0
0
0
