502 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The 502 HTTP Status Code means that the Bad Gateway error appears. In the 502 HTTP Status Code,  one server on the internet received an invalid response from another server, such as when a proxy server is in use. Other times, in the 502 HTTP Status Code, a query or request will take too long, and so it is canceled by the server, and the connection to the database breaks. A Gateway might refer to different things in networking and a 502 error is usually not something you can fix but requires a fix by the web server or the proxies you are trying to get access through. There is only one method used in the 502 HTTP Status Code which is the POST. The difference between it and the 500 HTTP Status Codes is that it is a general error response. This indicates that the server encountered an unexpected circumstance that prevented it from fulfilling the request. While the 502 HTTP Status Code is that the server while acting as a gateway or proxy, received an invalid response from the upstream server it accessed in attempting to fulfill the request.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does 502 HTTP Status Code Mean?
1.1.
How to Use 502 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
2.
How to Check 502 HTTP Status Code?
2.1.
Which HTTP Method is used with 502 HTTP Status Code?
3.
What are the Related HTTP Response Headers with 502 HTTP Status Code?
4.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of the 502 HTTP Status Code?
5.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to the 502 HTTP Status Code?
What does 502 HTTP Status Code Mean?
The 502 HTTP Status Code indicates a server-side error, meaning the issue is with the hosting web server. The 502 HTTP Status Code error always pops up when you least expect it, in many instances, the gateway or the proxy server might be encountering communication issues with the upstream or original server.
How to Use 502 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
To use the 502 HTTP Status Code in a site, the web developer should leverage backend tools for the webserver for scaling, efficiency, and the capacity to respond to client requests and demands immediately. The 502 HTTP Status code with the “header” function may be used by a developer in JavaScript, Python, Ruby, PHP, Java, C#.Net, Perl, C++, Scala, and Kotlin. In using these tools, the web developer should try to update as well the themes and plugins and can as well as disable the firewall. Furthermore, a web developer should also check with the provider.
How to Check 502 HTTP Status Code?
To check the 502 HTTP Status Code use the web browser network tab and developer tools for every resource that the client uses.
Which HTTP Method is used with 502 HTTP Status Code?
There is only one method used in the 502 HTTP Status Code. The POST method is used in the 502 HTTP Status Code. The POST method sends data to the server in a package in a separate connection with the processing script.
What are the Related HTTP Response Headers with 502 HTTP Status Code?
There are related HTTP Response Headers with the 502 HTTP Status Code. The 502 HTTP Status Code’s related HTTP Header are listed below.
510 Not Extended HTTP Status Code: The
510 HTTP Status Code
is related to the 502 HTTP Status Code because they are both server error responses. The server will need to add further extensions to the request in order to fulfill it.
501 Not Implemented HTTP Status Code: The
501 HTTP Status Code
is related to the 502 HTTP Status Code because they are both server error responses.  The server does not support the request method and cannot process it. The only methods that servers must offer are GET and HEAD.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of the 502 HTTP Status Code?
You can see the table that shows the browser’s compatibility of the 502 HTTP Status Code below.
Browser Name
Browser Compatibility of 502 HTTP Status Code
Chrome
YES
Firefox
YES
Internet Explorer
YES
Opera
YES
Safari
YES
WebView Android
YES
Chrome Android
YES
Firefox for Android
YES
What are the other Similar Status Codes to the 502 HTTP Status Code?
There are other similar HTTP Status Codes to the 502 HTTP Status Code. The following are listed below.
503 Service Unavailable HTTP Status Code: The
503 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 502 HTTP Status Code because they are both server error responses. The 503 Service Unavailable HTTP Status Code indicates that the server is unable to handle the request.
504 Gateway Timeout HTTP Status Code: The
504 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 502 HTTP Status Code because they are both server error responses. The 504 Gateway Timeout HTTP Status Code indicates that the error response is delivered when the server is acting as an entrance and is unable to get a response on time.
505 HTTP Version Not Supported HTTP Status Code: The
505 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 502 HTTP Status Code because they are both server error responses. The 505 HTTP Version Not Supported HTTP Status Code is the HTTP form used in a request that the server does not support.
506 Variant Also Negotiates HTTP Status Code: The
506 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 502 HTTP Status Code because they are both server error responses. The 506 Variant Also Negotiates HTTP Status Code indicates that the server has an internal design flaw: the selected variation asset is set up to take part in the uncomplicated content transfer itself, and hence is not a legal endpoint in the exchange interaction.
Author
Recent Posts
Follow SEO
Holistic SEO
SEO Research Department
at
Holistic SEO & Digital
Holistic SEO & Digital has been built by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR. Holistic SEO is the process of developing integrated digital marketing projects with every aspect including Coding, Natural Language Processing, Data Science, Page Speed, Digital Analytics, Content Marketing, Technical SEO, and Branding. Structured, Semantic Search Engine improves its ability to detect the real-world entities, today. Having a simple website is not enough anymore. To show that your brand is authoritative, trustworthy, and expert on its own niche, you need entity-based Search Engine Optimization Projects. Holistic SEO & Digital's main focus is on improving the brand's organic visibility and growth potential.
Follow SEO
Latest posts by Holistic SEO
(
see all
)
48 Online Shopping and Consumer Behavior Statistics, Facts and Trends
- August 22, 2023
B2B Marketing Statistics
- August 22, 2023
38 Podcast Statistics, Facts, and Trends
- August 22, 2023
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
TechSEO
502 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods
by Holistic SEO
time to read: 3 min
TechSEO
501 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
TechSEO
499 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
0
0
0
