417 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
The 417 HTTP Status Code means that the request’s expectation failed, which indicates that when the server is unable to match the expectation specified by the Expect request-header field, an error will result. The difference between HTTP Status Codes 400 and 417 is that the 400 HTTP Status Code indicates that the server could not recognize the request due to invalid syntax, whereas the 417 HTTP Status Code indicates that at least one of the inbound servers was unable to meet the expectations stated in the request’s Expect header field.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does 417 HTTP Status Code Mean?
1.1.
How to Use 417 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
2.
How to Check 417 HTTP Status Code?
2.1.
Which HTTP Method is used with 417 HTTP Status Code?
3.
What is the Related HTTP Response Header with 417 HTTP Status Code?
4.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of 417 HTTP Status Code?
5.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to 417 HTTP Status Code?
What does 417 HTTP Status Code Mean?
The 417 HTTP Status Code means expectation failed indicates that the server was unable to finish the request successfully. One of the headers supplied to the server, the “Expect” header, indicated that the server had been expecting something that it could not deliver.
How to Use 417 HTTP Status Code for a Website?
To use the 417 HTTP Status Code is when there is a problem with the server’s ability to meet the requirements of the Expect request-header field.
How to Check 417 HTTP Status Code?
To check the 417 HTTP Status Code use the web browser network tab and developer tools for every resource that the client uses.
Which HTTP Method is used with 417 HTTP Status Code?
The HTTP methods that are used with the 417 HTTP Status Codes are given below.
GET HTTP Method: The GET HTTP method is used in the 417 HTTP Response Status Code. The GET method asks for a representation of the resource that has been specified. Requests made with the GET method should only obtain data.
POST HTTP Method: The POST HTTP method is used in the 417 HTTP Response Status Code.The POST method sends an entity to the resource that was chosen. This can change the server’s state or have other effects.
What is the Related HTTP Response Header with 417 HTTP Status Code?
There is only one related HTTP response header with 417 HTTP Status Code which is the Expect HTTP Header. The Expect HTTP Header shows the server’s expectations for handling the request satisfactorily.
What are the Browsers Compatibility of 417 HTTP Status Code?
The 417 HTTP Status Code is compatible with all browsers including Chrome, Edge, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Opera, Safari, and Webview Android.
What are the other Similar Status Codes to 417 HTTP Status Code?
There are other similar HTTP Status Codes to the 417 HTTP Status Code. The following are listed below.
414 URI Too Long HTTP Status Code: The
414 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 417 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 414 HTTP Status Code indicates that the client’s URI request is longer than the server will interpret.
415 Unsupported Media Type HTTP Status Code: The
415 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 417 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 415 HTTP Status Code indicates that the server does not support the requested media format, hence it rejects the request.
416 Range Not Satisfiable HTTP Status Code: The
416 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 417 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 416 HTTP Status Code indicates the range specified in the request’s Range header field cannot be accomplished. It is possible that the range is greater than the data size of the target URI.
418 I’m a teapot HTTP Status Code:  The
418 HTTP Status Code
is similar to the 417 HTTP Status Code because they are both client error responses. The 418 HTTP Status Code indicates that the server declines to use a teapot to brew coffee.
Author
Recent Posts
Follow SEO
Holistic SEO
SEO Research Department
at
Holistic SEO & Digital
Holistic SEO & Digital has been built by Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR. Holistic SEO is the process of developing integrated digital marketing projects with every aspect including Coding, Natural Language Processing, Data Science, Page Speed, Digital Analytics, Content Marketing, Technical SEO, and Branding. Structured, Semantic Search Engine improves its ability to detect the real-world entities, today. Having a simple website is not enough anymore. To show that your brand is authoritative, trustworthy, and expert on its own niche, you need entity-based Search Engine Optimization Projects. Holistic SEO & Digital's main focus is on improving the brand's organic visibility and growth potential.
Follow SEO
Latest posts by Holistic SEO
(
see all
)
48 Online Shopping and Consumer Behavior Statistics, Facts and Trends
- August 22, 2023
B2B Marketing Statistics
- August 22, 2023
38 Podcast Statistics, Facts, and Trends
- August 22, 2023
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
TechSEO
417 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example, Usage, Methods
by Holistic SEO
time to read: 2 min
TechSEO
418 HTTP Response Status Code Definition: Example,…
TechSEO
DNT HTTP Header: Syntax, Directive, Examples
0
0
0
