Truly vs Truely: Which one is Correct? - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
“Truly” is the correct spelling to use, while “truely” is a common grammar error. The word “truly” is the same in the past, present, and future tenses. It comes from the root word “true”, which means a thing or a subject being talked about is accurate, precise, or exact. The correct suffix used with “truly” is “ly”. There are no prefixes for the word “truly.” Using the incorrect spelling, which is the word “truely” in content writing, negatively affects the content or article. It makes the quality of a particular content inferior to its competitors. Misuse of the word hinders the capacity of the content to communicate and interact with its users or readers because it is less comprehensive, and the information is not delivered very well. Therefore, proper knowledge as a content writer and the distinction between “truly” and “truely” when writing is essential. The quality of the content depends on how well-written the structure of each of the sentences is.
Listed below are the example sentences of the correct and incorrect spellings of “Truly” and “Truely.”
An example of the correct spelling of “truly” in a sentence is, “Superman has superhuman strength and durability, flight, and laser beam which makes him truly strong and powerful.” It changes the meaning of the sentence since the word “truly” was used correctly; hence, the statement’s accuracy was emphasized by it.
“The peak of the smartphone industry is truly in the year 2010-2019 where innovative software and hardware innovations are still noticeable and cause huge impact towards consumers.” The sentence used “truly” to emphasize the fact being stated.
The improper use of “truely” in a sentence is, “The new song of this Korean girl group is truely a bop; it charted in various charts.” The misuse of the incorrectly spelled word “truely” negatively influences the sentence, mainly because it confuses the readers, and it makes the sentence incomprehensible to the readers.
“They are truely excellent and intelligent when it comes to academics; however, in terms of athletic matters, they are weak.” The sentence does not make any sense because the word “truely” that has been used is incorrect. Readers, especially beginners in using the English language, misinterpret it and think that the word pertains to other meanings.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
Which one is Correct, Truly or True?
1.1.
How to Pronounce “truly”?
1.2.
What are the Correct Examples of “truly” in Sentences?
2.
Which one is Correct, Truly or Truely?
3.
“How to Spell Truly and Truely” Correctly in Past Tense?
3.1.
How to Pronounce “truely”?
4.
What is the meaning of Truly?
4.1.
What is the Etymology of Truely?
4.2.
How to Use Truly in sentence?
4.2.1.
What are the Synonyms of Truly?
5.
What to Know for Using “truly” and “truely” for Using in Content Writing?
5.1.
How to Fix Incorrect uses of Truly in Content Writing and Marketing?
5.2.
What are the Other Missspelled Examples similar to “Truly and Truely”?
5.2.1.
How does Writing “truly” wrong affect SEO and Content Marketing?
Which one is Correct, Truly or True?
The correct word to use is “truly”. The word “truly” is the correct spelling, as seen in dictionaries and reliable textbooks. “Truly” comes from the root word “True,” meaning something is based on fact or in reality. The suffix of “truly” is “Ly”, whereas its prefix is non-existent, mainly because “truly” is only a combination of the root word and suffix only. Some example sentences of the word “truly” includes, “The performance of the cheerleading team yesterday was truly amazing.” The sentence was written with “truly” to emphasize the facts’ accuracy. The statement is less believable without the word “truly” because it lacks emphasis.
How to spell “truely” correctly in the present continuous tense? There is no correct version of the word “truely” in any tenses available in the English language right now. “Truely” is incorrect when spelled in the past, present, present continuous, or future tense. It is not recognized by reliable books, dictionaries, and online articles; thus, it is impossible to spell correctly in various tenses. However, spelling the word “truly” correctly in the present continuous tense is possible. “Truly,” when spelled in different tenses, is still the same; there are no changes, even one consonant or vowel. Do not add the letter “e” because it results in incorrect spelling as it does not follow the basic rules of suffixes.
How to Pronounce “truly”?
The pronunciation of the word “truly” is too-lee. It is a two-syllable word and is pronounced in two sounds. The “tru” portion of the word is read and pronounced as “troo”. Whereas the “Ly” part is pronounced as “lee.” “truly” is easy to read compared to other words as it is explicitly spelled based on its pronunciation. The word “truly” is barely mispronounced even beginners in the English language pronounce it correctly.
What are the Correct Examples of “truly” in Sentences?
Listed below are the example sentences using the correct spelling of “Truly.”
“The way I see his exaggerated actions towards her, I know he is
truly
in love with her.” The word “truly” was used in the sentence as an adverb that emphasized the fact being stated.
“The food here in this country is
truly
delicious, and they make me want to stay here for good.” The sentence used the term “truly” to highlight one of the most prominent characteristics of the subject.
“What the parent did to her son earlier is
truly
traumatizing because she slapped him just because he got a low score in their examination.” The example sentence utilized “truly” as an adjective that adds to the emphasis of the experience being described.
“This smartphone is
truly
innovative since it has a new set of improved features which are all future-proof.” The sentence has the word “truly” in the middle which serves as a highlighter to the presumption of the subject.
“The final examination is
truly
difficult, as our professor said.” The “truly” has been used as a highlighter of the fact that is discussed within the sentence.
The wrong spelling for the word “truly” is “truely”. “truely” is incorrect because adding suffixes to some English words does not need to write the whole word, some needs to remove letters in the root word, such as the letter “E.” Just remember that “truly” is spelled without the letter “E” due to the addition of the suffix “Ly” to properly recognize the distinction between the correct and incorrect spelling. Having the suffix requires the letter “E” to be removed because it has been able to take over the sound of the vowel.
Which one is Correct, Truly or Truely?
The correct one is the word “truly”. “truly” is correct, mainly because it has been able to follow the rules regarding the proper addition of suffixes. Adding suffixes to the root words has some technicalities and structure to follow. The letter “E” from the root word of “truly” must be removed since the suffix “Ly” is already enough to compensate for the vowel in terms of sounding and pronunciation. “Taylor Swift’s songs are truly excellent from the lyrics up to the discography.” The word “truly” was used to highlight the accuracy or preciseness of the information. The sentence is grammatically correct since the correct spelling of the word is used. However, if “truely” was used incorrectly, the sentence’s meaning is changed, and it becomes incomprehensible for the readers.
“How to Spell Truly and Truely” Correctly in Past Tense?
The correct spelling of the word “truly” in the past tense is “T-R-U-L-Y.” Simply spell the same word because “truly” does not change regardless of the tense present in a sentence. Adding suffixes such as “d” or “ed” in the word “truly” makes it an incorrect one. Unlike other words where suffixes are needed, the word “truly” is completely considered in any verb tenses without them. On the other hand, the word “truely” does not have any past tense form because it is an incorrect word. It is impossible to correctly spell it in the past tense because it is a misspelling.
Listed below are the example sentences of how to spell “truly” and “truely” correctly in past tense.
“The Great Wall of China is
truly
an unbreakable structure because it was able to withstand throughout the centuries.”
“Michael Jackson is
truely
an icon in the music industry.”
The verb tenses used in sentences affect the overall structure and meaning of the entire article. The usage of the proper verb tenses enables a smooth flow of information to the readers because incorrect usage of verb tenses alters the meaning. For instance, in the sentence, “Adolf Hitler was truly an evil person because of what he did during the Holocaust.” Using “is truly” instead of “was truly” in the sentence makes it look like the subject is still alive in the present era and currently doing something evil. Hence, verb tenses are very important in conveying information that associates with sequences of events, especially in content writing.
How to Pronounce “truely”?
The pronunciation of the word “truely” is troo-lee. “Truely” is pronounced the same way as “truly” despite their differences in spelling. Similar to “Truly,” the word “truely” has two syllables and is pronounced with two sounds. The first sound is “troo”, which comes from the “True” part of the word. The suffix “Ly” is the second sound and read as “lee.” “truely” is a word that is easy to pronounce and does not need extra sounds to correctly read it.
What is the meaning of Truly?
The meaning of the word “truly” means in a truthful manner or to an extent degree, genuinely or adequately. The word “truly” is an adverb used in sentences about facts, reality, and honesty. The etymology of the word “truly” is
triewe
in Old English and
treowe
in Mercian, which means “trustworthy, honest, faithful, and adheres to promise”; in Proto-Germanic, the word “truly” has an etymology of
treuwaz
that is associated with the meaning “having or characterized by the good faith” or consistent with fact.” Truly is a word that originated in the Old English language.
“I think continually of those who were
truly
great.” in
The Truely Great
book by Stephen Spender author shows the correct use of the “truly” word. “Truly” is used here as an adverb that describes that someone or a group of people are great in reality; their greatness is a fact and is not just an opinion or a lie.
“These
truly
dark clusters. If they are real, it would betray the universe’s dirty secret: Big piles of mass don’t necessarily come with lights attached.” in the
Science
book the author Rober Irion utilized the word “truly” to describe the clusters are dark. The author used “truly” to emphasize the truthfulness of the status of the clusters which are dark.
“They have, in the country of Pontarlier, whether you are going. Monsieur Valjean, a
truly
patriarchal and truly charming industry, my sister.” in the
Le Miserables
book from the author Victor Hugo. The word “truly” was used to emphasize the accuracy stated in the narrative of one of the characters in the story.
“But thou must not openly and vulgarly observe that sound and exact form of speaking, concerning that which is
truly
good and truly civil; the vanity of the world of men: which otherwise truth and reason both prescribe.” in the book entitled
GutenbergBooks – Meditations
by Emperor of Rome Marcus Aurelius. “Truly” was utilized to highlight the truthfulness of adjectives describing the subject.
“Monseigneur had one
truly
noble idea of public business, which was, to let everything go on its own way; of particular public business, Monseigneur had the other truly noble idea that it must all go his way-tend to his own power and pocket.” in the same book
GutenbergbBooks-Meditation by Emperor
of Rome Marcus Aurelius. The word “truly” was used to emphasize how true the greatness of the idea being described.
What is the Etymology of Truely?
The word “truely” has no etymology since it is not an important word. The word “truely” is a spelling mistake. Unlike official and correct words in the English language, “truely” has no word of origin from different ancient languages. Furthermore, the word “truely” does not have any language family. “Truely” is not even recognized as a word since it bears no meaning.
How to Use Truly in sentence?
The sentences must be about facts or emphasizing accurate information to use “truly” in a sentence properly. “truly” is a word that deals with real and precise information or discussion. For instance, “Our president is truly competent because he was able to make our country better in just a span of 3 years, which the past presidents were unable to achieve.” On the other hand, there are several synonyms or similar words to “truly” that are found on the internet, such as “truthfully, “honestly”, “frankly”, “accurately”, “correctly”, exactly, and “precisely”, among others.
What are the Synonyms of Truly?
The synonyms of the word “truly” are listed below.
Truthfully:
“Truthfully” is a word that expresses something genuine or honest; describes the truth. The term “Truthfully” is used in sentences to emphasize that the subject or topic is true and holds truthfulness or honesty. “Truthfully” and “truly” are similar in highlighting facts, accurate and precise information, or the truth.
“Honestly” refers to the word that describes a fair, honorable, or truthful manner. “Honestly” is utilized in the context of specific sentences to highlight that something or someone is sincere with their option, belief, or expression. The words “Honestly” and “truly” are somehow similar since they are both used in describing subjects or topics that deal with the truth or authenticity.
Accurately:
“Accurately” means that something, particularly a topic or information, is correct in all aspects, usually supported by credible and reliable sources. “Accurately” is commonly used in sentences that discuss things that require clarifica

[...truncated...]