Semantic SEO: How to use it for Better Rankings - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
Semantic SEO is to create a content network in a relevant and meaningful structure for each entity within a subject. Semantic SEO is connecting terms, entities, facts to each other within a factual accuracy and relational relevance. By focusing on meanings and topics instead of words, it has the purpose of satisfying the search intent of the user better and being the authority for the Search Engine and the User on a particular subject. Google is a Semantic Search Engine that creates connections between entities, searches intents and organizes the information on the web. Thus, creating an already organized content structure with clearly connected entities is important for Semantic Search Engine and Semantic SEO.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What is the difference of Semantic SEO?
2.
How to Write Content Using Semantic SEO
3.
How to Perform Keyword Research for Semantic SEO?
4.
Semantic SEO and Importance of Entities
5.
How to Extract Related Entities for Semantic SEO
6.
Semantic SEO and Google Hummingbird Algorithm Relation
7.
Semantic SEO, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) Relation
8.
The Relationship of Synonyms and Different Formats of the Queries and TF-IDF Analysis for Semantic SEO
9.
On-page SEO Elements and Semantic SEO
10.
Semantic Site-tree, URL Categorization, and Semantic SEO
11.
Semantic SEO and Semantic HTML Relation
12.
Structured Data and Semantic SEO
13.
Pillar Cluster Content, Content Hub, and Semantic SEO Relation
14.
People Also Ask, Featured Snippet, and Semantic SEO
15.
What is the Difference between Semantic Search and Semantic SEO?
16.
Final Thoughts on Semantic SEO and Holistic SEO
What is the difference of Semantic SEO?
Semantic SEO does not aim to answer a single question about a subject, but to answer all the questions that the user may need and belong to the same topic and to present the necessary information in a hierarchical structure.
Thus, as more possible search-intents are met, more authoritative and comprehensive pages are created on the same topic. With Semantic SEO, complete, comprehensive, and guideline content is created. These contents can also have various web applications, visual and video content, text content or surveys, PDF Files that meet the needs of the user. Different parts of the same topic are placed in a hierarchy on both page URLs and Breadcrumb, internal links, header, and footer links, thus creating a firm specialized in a subject.
Semantic SEO offers an organized user-journey experience, as opposed to randomly generated individual content. As a result of specializing in a single vertical, Google, Bing, Yandex, or other Search Engines will over time be sure that the user finds content that matches the search intent for a particular topic. With the authority provided by Historical Data and the wide query profile, the company may gain more comfortable ranking and brand awareness in the same and connected subject networks.
For creating content according to the Semantic SEO, the questions for the subject are important.
How to Write Content Using Semantic SEO
Semantic Content Writing is the term for content creation for Semantic SEO Principle. In order to write content suitable for Semantic SEO, all queries performed by the user, all subheadings about a topic are placed in a hierarchy. For the Semantic SEO project, SERP scanning and Search Intent definition should be made according to all subtopics within a subject. Search volumes are also important in the content network to be created for Semantic SEO. You can follow the steps below for Semantic SEO Strategy.
The queries used to investigate the topic should be listed hierarchically.
The search-intent of these queries should be analyzed.
Entities such as persons, institutions, laws, countries, places, cities, and dates in the subject should be listed.
How much separate contents will be created on the subject should be determined.
The hierarchy in which the contents will be linked to each other and how to link with which anchor texts should be determined.
In order for the contents to be completely distinguishable from each other by Search Engine, it should be determined how much of which subject will be processed in which content.
It should be specified to the Search Engine with the meta tags, headings, keywords, and anchor texts of the URLs to be created, which content meets which Search Intent.
Main Content and Supplementary Content half in a URL should be done properly to avoid the Keyword Cannibilization problem.
The Layout, Functions, and Contents of competitor pages in the SERP of the most important queries and the historical ranking results in these queries should be examined.
The content should be created in a fully specialized language, to benefit the user and making sure that it is easily understood by the Search Engine.
Google Autocomplete Data can create Semantic Topic Profile.
How to Perform Keyword Research for Semantic SEO?
Semantic SEO is an important concept as it allows focusing on an entire topic rather than a single keyword. For this reason, keyword research studies also differ. At this point, instead of focusing on one query, many queries that are interconnected should be focused on.
The following steps should be followed for Semantic SEO Keyword Research.
All of the tools such as Google Keyword Planner, Ahrefs Keyword Explorer, SEMRush Keyword Magic Tool, Moz Keyword Research can be used for Semantic SEO Research.
Google Autocomplete, Google People Also Ask, Google Suggested Queries, Google Knowledge Graph, Google Knowledge Panel Semantic can be used for SEO research.
Resources such as Wikipedia, Wikidata, Wikihow can be used for Semantic SEO Keyword research.
Youtube Autocomplete, Youtube Video Titles, Comments, Forum Threads, and call center questions or news sources also can be used for Semantic SEO Keyword Research.
The important point in Semantic SEO Query Research is to group user questions and queries according to specific search intents.
Google Images and Query Refinement Bubbels also help for Semantic SEO Query Research since they are connected to each other with a contextual hierarchy.
Different Search Engines give different related search data. This helps to see the algorithm differences along with a wider query network.
Semantic SEO and Importance of Entities
For Semantic SEO, it is not enough to just use queries that are linked together in a hierarchical order. At the same time, it is necessary to explore the relevant entities and their interconnectedness. Google is able to understand the subject, quality, or depth level of content even based on the context of each entity and the way it connects to other entities. With the way assets are linked, Google can use Contextual Information Retrieval and fill in missing information in the content.
An example of Contextual Information Retrieval is provided below.
“There are 35,000 Museums in the USA. I visited some of them and spent a lot of money.”
In this example, Google or another AI System can estimate that the person spends “US Dollars” in those museums because “spending money” is related to a currency, and Google can rewrite the content as follows.
“There are 35,000 Museums in the US. I visited some of them and spent a lot of US dollars.”
It is important for Semantic SEO that the contents are written clearly and each element is clearly written. Thus, specifying an element and entity more clearly will enable your content to be evaluated faster and with less cost by the Search Engine with Semantic SEO and Semantic Search.
How to Extract Related Entities for Semantic SEO
Finding related entities for a topic is important for Semantic SEO Optimization. You can find entities related to a subject by following the methods below.
Use Youtube, Bing, Yandex, Google Autocomplete Data.
Use Youtube, Bing, Yandex, Google Suggested Search Data.
Use lists of questions like People Also Ask on Google and Bing results pages.
Scan the latest news on Bing, Yandex, Google to list relevant names, places, laws, currencies, in other words.
Use Image Search information and query refinement bubbles.
Discover the relevant entities on Wikipedia via links.
Follow the Google Knowledge Panel, Knowledge Graph, and “Users Also Searched” suggestions.
Do research on topics related to the content and do not post content without mastering the subject.
Use Google Trends and Related Search Trends for specific times to see the connection between entities and sub-topics.
Also, to find the Related Entities, PyTrend can be used. To find out more about
PyTrend and how to use it for SEO
, you may read our guidelines.
Contextual Vectors and Semantic SEO relation can be seen in Google Patents, this diagram belongs to the User-context-based Search Engine.
Semantic SEO and Google Hummingbird Algorithm Relation
Google Hummingbird Update was realized in the 15th year of Google in 2013 in order to discover the relationship between different queries and to better read the user intent. Thus, instead of opening a page for each word, many common situations and concepts such as Keyword-stuffing or Keyword-density are a thing of the past, as more organized and comprehensive web pages take the lead in SERP.
Google Hummingbird Update affected 90% of queries. By removing the link between queries, Google Hummingbird has given Google the chance to put queries in a semantic order and analyze the user’s true intent and likely intent. Therefore, Semantic SEO can be said to be a well-established concept for Search Engines from the past. To learn more about
Google Hummingbird Update and Effects
, read our detailed guidelines.
You may see Semantic Structure between Entities in a Sentence or Content above. An SEO can think of these connections while reading the article to a better understanding of Search Engines.
Semantic SEO, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) Relation
Artificial Intelligence and Natural Language Processing are important concepts for SEO. In its algorithms, Google uses AI and Machine Learning to classify queries, make sense of them, link them together, understand page quality, and compare the generated SERPs with each other. Natural Language Processing means interpreting and categorizing content using machines. For this reason, knowing the NLP Methods and knowing the new technologies developed within the scope of NLP methods and Artificial Intelligence will be beneficial in terms of how Semantic SEO can be brought to a better point. When using Natural Language Processing for Semantic SEO, you can perform tests with NLP Models to see if the entities and different phrases in the article are noticeable, whether the article focuses on a subject enough, or the language and emotion structure of the article is enough to meet the industry. You can use it to see if it is suitable.
With NLP, you can see how you can draw the relationships between entities in an article by putting them in a knowledge graph. For more at this point, you can read our “Entity-graph Creation from a Content with Python” guideline.
Natural Language Processing and Entity Pairs to understand the content.
The Relationship of Synonyms and Different Formats of the Queries and TF-IDF Analysis for Semantic SEO
There is a link between Semantic SEO and the different spelling of words, their synonyms. Users can use different words to search for the same topic. It is important to naturally use synonyms or similar words within a topic to satisfy all users within a context, within the context of the relevant search-intent, and to ensure that Search Engine can reconcile difficult concepts. Even if TF-IDF Analysis is not of great importance in SEO studies, it can reflect the approach of different content publishers to a subject. With TF-IDF Analysis, it can be understood in certain criteria which concept or word has greater importance in an article. Different articles that mention the same topic may use different versions of the same concept. It is good for User Experience and Readability to deliver content to users more easily and to explain the same subject to the user with the concepts they prefer to use. Using different variants of the same concept for Search Engines helps algorithms better understand the subject and associate it with specific search intents.
TF-IDF Related contents for better understanding the term.
To learn
what is TF-IDF Analysis
, you may read our article.
To perform a
TF-IDF Analysis with Python
, you may read our guidelines.
Writing different forms of the keywords will help to get more visibility for different types of search terms and also it will improve the relevance of the content for the subject. While using different forms of keywords, the content’s natural structure and beneficial sides shouldn’t be decreased. Content always should be created for the users rather than Search Engines.
Synonyms and their Semantic Relations between each other.
On-page SEO Elements and Semantic SEO
On-page SEO Elements
are closely related to Semantic SEO. On-Page elements to be used in the web page can be organized in a Semantic way to better serve the purpose of the content. For example, when conveying a topic, more important questions are answered first, while less sought information can be taken down. This change in the internal structure of the content should be shown in Heading Tags to include the relevant part of the related concept. Words in URLs,
Breadcrumb Navigation
, Internal Links,
Anchor Texts
, images in Web Page,
alt-tags of images
, URLs of images should accompany the relevant subject with the same approach in this context, and harmony should be created in-page items for the certain search-intents and topics.
Elements such as title tags, Meta Descriptions can also be edited in accordance with Semantic SEO. By writing the title and description on the website in a semantic structure, 

[...truncated...]
