What does “Lulz"Emote Mean? - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
“Lulz” is an emote, a laughing expression figure which is widely used on internet gaming platforms and live-streaming software and websites. “Lulz” is often depicted on the laughing face of a dog in the form of a plain photo or a moving GIF. Apart from the laughing dog “Lulz” emote, there are various figures on the different internet gaming platforms as well. For instance, a photo or GIF with a cartoon emoticon and a “Lulz” calligraphy designed with light and stunning color gradients. An example of the usage of “Lulz” emote is when someone is playing with friends and their gaming experience is humorous. A person tends to send a “Lulz” emoticon to express laughter without having to interrupt their game. The “Lulz” emote is popular on these kinds of platforms because it is pretty convenient to use. The “Lulz” emote must be used in a conversation that tackles funny and silly topics, especially with friends and family. The “Lulz” is recommended to be used on gaming and live-streaming platforms as well because it is suitable for them. On the other hand, “Lulz” emote must not be used during professional online meetings and conferences and academic online classes, mainly because it is informal and inappropriate.
There is a “Lulz” text version as well apart from the “Lulz” emote. “Lulz” means to laugh at someone who’s a victim of a prank or a funny action. A “Lulz” text is the opposite of the graphical “Lulz” emote which is commonly seen in the form of media such as pictures and GIFs. The “Lulz” text is most typically used in casual conversations, especially in SMS and online chats or forums when having a discussion about a person who got fooled by a prank. The convenience that “Lulz” gives to its users is what makes it very popular. The “Lulz” acronym is often misused with the internet slang LoLZ which has different meanings. The “Lulz” and LoLZ differences are seen in the way they express laughter. LoLZ is the plural form of LoL, which stands for “Laughing Out Loud”; therefore, LoLZ means to laugh a lot in a loud and noisy manner. Meanwhile, “Lulz” is more concerned with laughing about someone’s hilarious fate. The LoLZ is more on the general side, it must be used to replace Lulz. However, “Lulz” is a more specific internet slang, and must only be used in appropriate circumstances. Additionally, the “Lulz” and ROLF difference is seen as well in their objective. ROLF is the abbreviation for “Rolling On The Floor Laughing” which is interpreted as someone who is having an intense burst of laughter due to a funny and entertaining encounter with either a conversation or content. Internet slang is the formal language that is frequently used for communication over the internet, especially on social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. It is a result of the absence of proper grammar rules and an appropriate structure, and thus it cannot be considered formal and must not be used for serious or professional documents and content. The majority of internet memes are written with the use of internet slang. The Internet meme, on the other hand, is a medium expressed in photos or videos, or text which contains funny and hilarious, entertaining, or uplifting messages. An Internet meme is used to deliver its meaning very well without having to be lengthy with words.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
Who found “Lulz”Abbreviation?
1.1.
Do People Use “Lulz”for face-to-face Communication?
1.2.
Is “Lulz”only for textual communication?
2.
What do Internet Slang Experts think about “Lulz”Abbreviation?
3.
What are the sentence examples with Lulz?
4.
How does Cambridge Dictionary define Lulz?
5.
What are the Variants of Lulz?
5.1.
What are the Derivations of Lulz?
5.2.
What are the related terms to Lulz?
5.3.
What are the Foreign Equivalents of “Lulz”from other Languages?
6.
How do Content Writers use “Lulz”for communicating with Customers?
6.1.
Do Social Media Marketers use Lulz?
6.2.
Does “Lulz”a not serious term for SEO Content?
6.3.
Is epic “Lulz”and “Lulz”the same?
6.4.
What is the difference between “Lulz”and LuL?
6.5.
What is the difference between “Lulz”and LoLZ?
Who found “Lulz”Abbreviation?
The founder of “Lulz” emote is a person with the username “ziptnf.” Ziptnf submitted the emote on Frankerfeacez which is a platform where users are able to get emotes to use for their communication purposes with peers. The original “Lulz” emote is in a form of an image of a golden retriever dog having a grinning face. The “Lulz” emote was first introduced in 2017 and is still available in 2022. The “Lulz” emote is inspired by the internet slang “Lulz” and “Lol”. Today, there are various versions of “Lulz” emote expressed in glamorous calligraphies and funny cartoon faces.
Do People Use “Lulz”for face-to-face Communication?
Yes, people use “Lulz” for face-face communication. Face-to-face communication is a form of engagement and information sharing between two people who are physically present and verbally communicating. “Lulz” is an acronym, it is read as a whole word and not in a letter-by-letter manner. Thus, including it in a verbal interaction is highly effective and comprehensible.
Is “Lulz”only for textual communication?
No, “Lulz” is not only for textual communication. Textual communication, such as SMS or chat messaging, is a method of communication in which the users read or view the information being conveyed. Despite “Lulz” being created in the textual format on the internet, it is very useful and understandable in other forms of communication as well such as face-to-face communication. “Lulz” is an acronym; hence saying it verbally is very convenient.
What do Internet Slang Experts think about “Lulz”Abbreviation?
According to some internet slang, experts such as Silvio Laccetti and Scott Molski, frequent usage of internet slang such as “Lulz” acronym are terms that are critical, and negatively affect one’s ability to get employed by most companies, especially for student applicants. In their essay “
The Lost Art of Writing”,
they stated that “the employers will not be satisfied by the internet slang such as “Lulz” whenever they read reports that do not have proper punctuations and grammar structures, possess a lot of misspelled words, and various words that are made out of informality like modern acronyms and acronym.” Furthermore, Fondiler and Nerone said that professional or business interactions must be done with caution and must be properly constructed. However, on the contrary, linguist John McWhorter stated that internet slang such as “Lulz” is a marker of empathy and accommodation. According to McWhorter, it is used to lessen the tension and awkwardness, and to bring up a light atmosphere among conversations. Thus, the usage of internet slang such as “Lulz” is not entirely bad as long as it is used appropriately.
What are the sentence examples with Lulz?
The “Lulz” acronym is very common to be seen on the internet. “Lulz” is often seen in chat conversations, group forums, internet memes, and status updates. It is a typical expression for almost everyday scenarios.
Listed below are the sentence examples with Lulz.
“We were there on Layla’s birthday, and you know what? Anna got scared of the sudden appearance of killer clown mascots on her back, and we had a lulz!”
(The “Lulz” in the sentence is used to deliver what the sender of the message wants the receiver to know regarding their expressions during the birthday)
“Pauline ran to the woods during our camping because she thought that the drone we put near her was some sort of insect, lulz!”
(The meaning of the conversation which is about having a funny encounter due to the prank was conveyed due to the usage of Lulz in the conversation. The “Lulz” acronym helped in stating the particular expression)
“It’s fine to disregard every one of the rules above if you do so through malice rather than ignorance, ie, for the lulz.”
(The “Lulz” in the sentence is used to describe the type of action being suggested by someone. The “Lulz” is interpreted as “for the fun”.
“In the end, it’s debatable at whose expense the “Lulz”really was.”
(The sentence is using “Lulz” to shorten the message. The “Lulz” here was used to pertain to the prank done by a group of people, and they are debating who to blame at the end of it.
“Initially, we harassed them for lulz, but then we realised that they ruin lives.”
(The “Lulz” is utilized by the speaker or the source of the message to pertain to “Lulz” as “fun.” Therefore, the sentence means that they have done harassment for fun, but they realized in the end that it was all wrong)
“She didn’t realize that there was ice cream all over the back of her dress! Lulz.”
(The statement is laughing about someone’s humorous and embarrassing situation. Therefore, the speaker chose to use “Lulz” as an indication that it was someone’s embarrassing moment)
“Lulz, I talked to six or seven people, and none of these “friends” told me I had spinach in my teeth.”
(Another sentence where there is an embarrassing moment. However, in the case of the sentence, it is the person telling it who got pranked and laughed at)
“At first I would try to cause chaos, lulz, whatever to have fun,” he says.
(The speaker or the sender of the sentence is planning to cause chaos to have fun. The “Lulz” was used to express laughter in between those words)
“My view is that the attackers saw this as an opportunity for “lulz”, and a way to misdirect everyone.”
(“Lulz” acronym was used to pertain to the phrase “for laugh” which helped the sentence to be properly understood)
“I only dated her for the lulz. Now I’ve gotta pay $500 a month in alimony for the next 18 years.”
(The same “Lulz” was used to indicate the phrase “for fun.” The source of the sentence is trying to say that dating is just for fun, but it has caused a huge consequence in the end)
“Stop responding to the trolls on Facebook! They’re only doing it for the lulz.”
(“Lulz” acronym was used in the last part of the sentence to tell someone that trolling on Facebook must not be taken seriously as they are only doing it to have some fun)
“Lulz! There are some top laughs on Donald’s Twitter feed this morning!”
(The “Lulz” was put in the first part of the sentence to indicate laughter before talking about the silly topic)
“I’m going to convince everyone I’m an astronaut, just for the lulz.”
(“Lulz” is indicating a “just for the laugh” scenario wherein the sender wants to deceive everyone. The sender of the sentence is using “Lulz” to put some twist in their conversation)
“Edward just punched his classmate’s face during their class for the lulz.”
(The statement means that Edward is bullying a classmate just for the purpose of laughter)
“The lady was screaming as she went outside the house because my friends dressed up as ghosts and entered her house just for the lulz.”
(The speaker is using “Lulz” to describe the purpose of the friends’ actions. They were doing the prank to have something to laugh at)
“My sister fell out of her chair because I put a toy cockroach on her lap
and I got a big lulz.”
(The “Lulz” was used to describe that the person has a huge fun and laughter after the pranking incident)
“Charlene got her coffee spilled over her desk in the office, lulz.”
(The “Lulz” was used to mock someone for its bad day)
“Our teacher went out of the classroom because we are so noisy, and we did it on purpose just for lulz.”
(“Lulz” was in the sentence to give the context of why the students did their bad actions)
“My Siberian husky dog last night howled so loud because I pranked him that I’m dead for lulz.”
(The example given was talking about the owner pranking the dog for “Lulz”or for laugh purposes)
“Their maid submitted a resignation letter this morning because they let the dog chase her last night for lulz.”
(The example is using “Lulz” to describe the situation concisely)
How does Cambridge Dictionary define Lulz?
The Cambridge Dictionary still has no definition of the “Lulz” acronym in their system. However, the Oxford Dictionary defines the “Lulz” acronym as, “the feeling that something makes you laugh.”, especially because somebody has done something that makes them look silly. The definition means that “Lulz” acronym is used in circumstances where a person looks funny either through one’s own action or because of a prank that has been properly done. It is used whenever people are having or have been in a hilarious situation.
What are the Variants of Lulz?
“Lulz” acronym is among the most popular internet slang on the internet. “Lulz” acronym is used to indicate a laughing expression. Due to the worldwide coverage of the internet, it is already expected that “Lulz” that have a lot of versions circulating on digital platforms. Although they have some alterations in meaning, they are describing the same main expression which is laughter.
Listed below are the variants of Lulz.
LOL:
LOL is an acronym that represents the phrase “Laughing Out Loud” which means to express laughter in a loud and wide-open mouth way. The
LOL
acronym was first used in the late 1980s by Wayne Pearson. LOL and “Lulz” are similar in expressing laughter; however, “Lulz” is specific in laughing about a person being pranked.
LOLZ:
LOLZ is another acronym that describes a burst of loud laughter, but is a plural form.
LOLZ
is commonly used by people who want to show other people that they are having a lot of loud laughs. LOLZ and “Lulz” are the same in indicating laughter, but they differ in purpose and must not be used interchangeably with each other.
LUL:
LUL acronym means several things which are dependent on the country and language. The term “Lame Uncomfortable Laugh” is typically used to respond to a joke or content that is not funny or does not bring happiness and joy. Nowadays, in other countries, “
LUL
” is understood as “Love You Lots,” which is an expression of affection that is frequently given by lover

[...truncated...]