Hyphen vs Dash: Difference between Them and How to correctly use them - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
“Hyphen” and “dash” are two of the most commonly misused and confused punctuation marks. A “hyphen” is known as a short line (-). It is used to connect the parts of a compound word or the parts of a word divided for any purpose. Meanwhile, “dash” is a horizontal line showing a pause or break in meaning. The use of a “dash” sometimes represents missing words or letters. There are common misinterpretations and misuses of “hyphen” and “dash,” especially for those who are non-native English writers or have a different mother tongue. The punctuation marks “Hyphen,” and “Dash” difference is mostly highlighted in their meaning, spelling, and usage. “Hyphen” and “dash” are misused and confused because the two punctuation marks have almost the same symbol.
The differences and comparisons between “Hyphen” and “Dash” are listed below.
“Hyphen” is used to become closed compounds or single words with no “hyphen” over time. It is the act of joining two words using a “hyphen”.
“Hyphen” is not interchangeable with often types of dashes.
“Hyphen” means dividing a word between two lines of text.
“Dash” is used to separate groups of words, not to separate parts of words as a “hyphen” does.
“Dash” is a little horizontal line that floats in the middle of a line of text.
“Dash” is a punctuation mark that has two types, which are the “En Dash” and “Em Dash”
“Dash” main purpose is to emphasize the sentence.
Generally, it is essential to identify when and which punctuation marks must be used in a sentence to deliver the correct structure of the sentence. Understanding the meaning allows the writer to identify in which context the “hyphen” and “dash” are used to convey a clear message. These punctuation marks that have almost the same symbol are often misused. It results in mistakes in word structure. It is a must that writers do proofread to check if there are any punctuation marks mistakes or word errors in their articles.
Understanding the meaning and the context of “hyphen” and “dash” is a must. Having a clear knowledge of these types of punctuation marks allows the writer to identify the context in which the “hyphen” and “dash” are used to convey a clear message. For example, “The client expects a three-to-four-week delay in processing.” The “hyphen” is correctly used because it connects the parts of a compound word. Another sentence example is for the punctuation mark “dash.” “ The years 2001–2003.” The dash is correctly used to show the range of years.
One of the people’s questions is, “Why to know the difference between “hyphen” and “dash” for content writing and marketing?” The answer is that it is beneficial to write better content and communicate healthily. Processing knowledge regarding the distinction between the two punctuation marks helps content writers and marketers convey appropriate messages to audiences and readers. Proper usage of “hyphen” and “dash” offers a way to correct the structure of sentences and avoid the possibility of errors and incorrect grammar. Furthermore, knowing the difference between “hyphen” and “dash” indicates that the content writer and marketer have expertise in writing and making content, and thus readers put trust in their crafts.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
What does “Hyphen” Mean?
1.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Hyphen”?
1.2.
When to use the word “Hyphen” in a sentence?
1.3.
What are the synonyms of “Hyphen”?
2.
What does “Dash” Mean?
2.1.
What are the sentence examples with “Dash”?
2.2.
When to use the word “Dash” in a sentence?
2.3.
What are the synonyms of “Dash”?
2.4.
How is the pronunciation of “Hyphen” and “Dash”?
3.
Comparison between “Hyphen” and “Dash”?
4.
Why are “Hyphen” and “Dash” misused and interchangeably in English?
4.1.
Are “Hyphen” and “Dash” the most commonly misused English words?
4.2.
What are the other similar Misused Word Pairs like “Dash” and “Hyphen” in English?
4.3.
What are the things should a content writer consider in using the word “Hyphen” and “Dash”?
4.4.
Can content writers use “Hyphen” and “Dash” in one sentence?
5.
How do Content Writers use “Hyphen” and “Dash” in their articles?
5.1.
Do Content Writers use “Hyphen” and “Dash” in a wrong way?
5.2.
Do Misused Words such as “Dash” and “Hyphen” affect SEO and UX?
What does “Hyphen” Mean?
A “hyphen” is a short line (-) used to connect the parts of a compound word or the parts of a word divided for any purpose. The “hyphen” is a type of punctuation mark. It is used to join words and separate syllables within a single word. The usage of “hyphen” is called “hyphenation.” The word “hyphen” comes from the Ancient Greek ὑφ’ ἕν (huph’ hén), contracted from ὑπό ἕν (hypó hén), meaning “in one” or literally “under one.” The word “hyphen” means the act of joining two words using a “hyphen” in the Oxford Dictionary. It is the division of a word between two lines of text using a “hyphen.” People started to use the word “hyphen” in the 18th century. The word “hyphen” is a punctuation mark commonly used in English. It is an important word used in daily life because it is used to connect separate syllables of a single word.
What are the sentence examples with “Hyphen”?
Listed below are the sentence examples with “Hyphen”.
“The design is
state-of-the-art
.
” The “hyphen” is correctly used in a sentence because it connects the compound words.
“The client expects a
three-to-four-week
delay in processing” The “hyphen” is correctly used in a sentence to connect the four words.
“The Queen’s
throne-sat
for six decades.” The “hyphen” is correctly used in a sentence because it joins the two words.
“The dog is
friendly-looking
.” The “hyphen” is correctly used in a sentence to join compound words.
When to use the word “Hyphen” in a sentence?
“Hyphens” are mostly used in compound words. Compound words, such as self-restraint, are “hyphenated.” For example, numbers between twenty-one and ninety-nine must be “hyphenated.” “Hyphenated” words tend to become closed compounds or single words with no “hyphen” over time. For example, the word “email” instead of “e-mail.” The term “email” is an excellent example of how it is becoming increasingly common to become a single word. Furthermore, a “hyphen” is additionally used with a compound modifier before a noun. A compound modifier comprises two or more words that must be understood as a unit. In other words, it is called a phrasal adjective.
What are the synonyms of “Hyphen”?
One of the alternate punctuation marks of the “hyphen” is the “n dash” and “m dash.” “M dash” and “N dash” are punctuation marks that are used to connect the parts of a compound word. Additionally, these punctuation mark parts of a word is divided for any purpose. For example, “The years 2001–2003”. Additionally, an “n-dash” is used in place of a “hyphen” when combining open compounds. Another example is using “m dash”, “I pay the bills—she has all the fun.” The punctuation mark “Hyphen” is commonly used in English writings. Synonyms are used as an alternative if it is accurate or grammatically correct. However, it is still better to use the exact punctuation mark or the “hyphen” when writing a sentence.
What does “Dash” Mean?
A “dash” is a little horizontal line that floats in the middle of a line of text. It is not at the bottom because that is an underscore. A “dash” is longer than a “hyphen” and is commonly used to indicate a range or a pause. The usage of “dash” is to separate groups of words, not parts of words, as a “hyphen” does. Remember that “dash” is rather informal and must be used carefully in writing. Sometimes a “dash” does not contain a space on either side of it. The “dash” comes from the Middle English word “dasshen”. It derives from the Middle French dachier, which means “to break”. The “dash” first appeared in writing in the 1550s. The “Dash” took on specific roles in the late 1800s. The word “Dash” is a punctuation mark commonly used in the English language. It is an important punctuation mark used in daily life because it is used to add parenthetical statements or comments in much the same way as an alternative usage of brackets. “Dash” is used to create emphasis in a sentence.
What are the sentence examples with “Dash”?
Listed below are the sentence examples with “Dash”.
“The years
2001–2003
are my best years.” The “dash” is used in the example sentence to indicate the range of the years.
“I pay the
bills—she
has all the fun.” The “dash” is used in the example sentence to indicate a pause to the readers.
“I came from the North
Carolina–Virginia
border” The “dash” is used in the example sentence to indicate the range of the distance.
“My best month of the year is from
January–June.
”
The “dash” is used in the example sentence alternatively to the word “to”. It is to indicate the range of the months.
When to use the word “Dash” in a sentence?
There are two types of “dash”. The two types of “dash” are the “N dash” and “M dash”. “N dash”, which are about the width of an upper-case N, are usually mistaken for “hyphens.” However, the “dash” function as a kind of super “hyphen.” “Dash” are meant to give an extra connection when having a compound modifier that includes a multi-word element that is not able to be easily “hyphenated.” For example, the phrase “Elvis Presley–style dance moves” uses an “n dash” because “Elvis-Presley-style dance moves” are uncomfortable. “Elvis Presley” is not a compound modifier, it looks odd when hyphenating it. Keep in mind that not all readers notices the “n dash” or understand what it means. Furthermore, “n dash” is additionally used to show ranges of numbers such as times, and page numbers of scores. For example, “The class schedule is from 4:30–5:00.” However, outside of formal printed publications, the “m dash” is commonly replaced with a simple “hyphen.” “M dash” is about as wide as an uppercase M. It is a relatively artistic punctuation mark compared to the technical “hyphen” and “dash.” An “m dash” is often used to indicate a pause in a sentence. It is stronger than a comma but weaker than a period or semicolon. For example, “The new nurse—who was wearing the same blue scrubs as the old nurse—entered the room with a tray of egg”
What are the synonyms of “Dash”?
“Dash” is a type of punctuation mark that has several synonyms. Some synonyms include commas and periods. These punctuation marks indicate a pause or a break in a sentence. The punctuation mark “Dash” is commonly used in the English language. However, these synonyms are used as an alternative punctuation mark for “Dash” in constructing sentences. For example, “Tony, a master guitar player if there ever was one, was left-handed.”
How is the pronunciation of “Hyphen” and “Dash”?
The words “hyphen” and “dash” are both punctuation marks, which is correct in terms of spelling. The word “Hyphen” is pronounced as “hai·fn” while the word “Dash” is pronounced simply as “da-sh.” The word “hyphen” is spelled as “H-Y-P-H-E-N”. It is composed of two syllables, “hyp-hen.” On the other hand, the word “Dash” is spelled as “D-A-S-H.” It is composed of two syllables, “da-sh.”
Comparison between “Hyphen” and “Dash”?
The table below shows the comparison between “hyphen” and “dash.”
Word
Definition
Context
Example sentences
Hyphen
A “hyphen” is a type of punctuation mark. It is used to join words and to separate syllables of a single word.
A “hyphen” is required in a compound word. However, it is important to remember that current usage shifts because of published dictionaries.
Anna has a “35-hour” working week.
She won the “200-meter” sprint.
Charles Dickens was a great “nineteenth-century” novelist.
Dash
A “dash” is a little horizontal line that floats in the middle of a line of text. It is used to separate groups of words.
“Dash” is used to add parenthetical statements or comments in the same way as using brackets.
You think she is a “liar – she” isn’t.
She might come to the “party – you” never know.
Anna pays the “bills—she” has all the fun.
Why are “Hyphen” and “Dash” misused and interchangeably in English?
The punctuation marks  “Hyphen” and “Dash” are misused and sometimes interchanged in English because their symbols are almost identical. The symbols are the same yet their meanings and origins are entirely distinct from one another. “Hyphen” and “Dash” are misused and interchanged by people because the two are not only pronounced the same way, but it is because of the spellings. The solution to avoid misusing the two words is to learn their meanings. People who learn the words “Hyphen” and “Dash” together are confused according to the look of the symbol and the almost same figure. Rarely, people are confused by “Hyphens” and “Dash” because of how the words are typed. However, the only solution to grammatically and correctly using “Hyphen” and “Dash” is understanding and comprehending the definition and to what context the words are applicable.
Are “Hyphen” and “Dash” the most commonly misused English words?
Yes, the punctuation marks “Hyphen” and “Dash” are the most commonly misused English words. “Hyphens” and “Dash”  are not only misused but people are confused by the symbols. However, to determine what punctuation mark is used in a sentence, it is a must to know their difference in terms of spelling. The word “Hyphen” is used to join words or parts of words. On the other hand, the word “Dash” is longer than a hyphen, which is used to indicate a range or a pause. The symbols are almost the same, which causes confusion for people. Confusion about the two punctuation marks results in misused English words. The symbol for “Hyphen” is ‘-” while the symbol for “Dash” is “–.” Most people who are not that skilled in English would probably think that “Hyphen” and “Dash” exist as one and are allowed to use them both in the same context.
What are the other similar Misused Word Pairs like “Dash” and “Hyphen” in English?
Listed below are the

[...truncated...]
