Data Science SEO and Visualization with Python - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
This article has been prepared as a tutorial to show how to Retrieve Google SERP with regular periods, animate the differences to see Google Search Engine’s preference and experiment algorithms. In this article, we will use Semantic Search Queries to understand the topical coverage and topical authority of certain domains. We will retrieve all of the related Search Engine Result Pages (SERP) for these queries, crawl landing pages, blend the crawl data with also Google Search Engine’s SERP dimensions and third-party page information to find different correlations and insights for the SEO via Data Science.
You can watch the related RankSense Webinar that has been performed with Dear Elias Dabbas (a.k.a, Professor) and Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR. And, all of this Jupyter notebook normally was prepared in December for a planned and canceled webinar with Genius and Dear Hamlet Batista.
The webinar recording is below.
In the Memory of Hamlet Batista. If you wonder, who is Hamlet Batista.
This Data Science and Visualization tutorial includes a comprehensive, complete guideline for analyzing algorithms, Search Engines’ decision trees, on-page, off-page, technical, non-technical features of landing pages along with text-analysis, SERP data insights, and topical search engine features. This mini Python and Data Science for SEO book have been written in the memory of Dear Hamlet Batista. At the end of the educational SEO Data Science article, you will see a complete tribute to him.
If you want to support his family, you can join Lily Ray’s campaign:
https://www.gofundme.com/f/in-memory-of-hamlet-batista
SEO Data Science Webinar with Koray Tuğberk Gübür and Elias Dabbas
The webinar for the Data Science, Visualization for SEO has been published with Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR and Elias Dabbas. You can find the related webinar video below.
The Webinar for the Data Science, Visualization and SEO Webinar with Elias Dabbas and Koray Tuğberk GÜBÜR has been published.
By examining the Data Science, Visualization for SEO Twittorial with RankSense, you can see some summative instructions and visualizations for this tutorial.
If you want to read and examine the related RankSense Twittorial for Data Science and SEO, you can use this link:
https://twitter.com/RankSense/status/1372265449610747906
After Elias Dabbas and Koray Tuğberk Gübür performs the Data Science for SEO Webinar with RankSense and OnCrawl, the video of the webinar will be added here. If you want to wonder what RankSense is you can click the image below to support it.
RankSense is a part of Hamlet’s Legacy.
I am a Star Author in OnCrawl for the last 2 years, and I thank you to OnCrawl for all their support during my SEO Journey. I also recommend you to check OnCrawl’s SEO and Data Science vision which is supported by Dear Vincent Terrasi.
OnCrawl is a Data Science based SEO Crawler and Audit Technology.
You can see the content of tables for the Data Science, Visualization and SEO tutorial/guideline below.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
Connecting to the Google Custom Search API (Programmable Search Engine API)
2.
Using Google Custom Search API via Advertools to Retrieve the SERP Data
3.
Retrieving the Search Engine Results Pages with Regular Periods with Python
4.
How to Unite All of the Outputs of SERP Retrieving Python Script?
5.
How to Animate Search Result Differences based on Periodic Search Engine Result Pages Records
6.
Retrieving and Animating the Search Engine Results Page Ranking Changes to See the General Situation
7.
Extracting Semantic Entities from Wikipedia and Creating Related Search Queries based on Semantic Search Intents
8.
Calculating the Topical Coverage and Authority of Different Sources with Pandas
9.
How to Extract Best 10 Domain from SERP Data for Thousands of Queries?
9.1.
Visualization of the Top 10 Domains’ Organic Search Performance on the SERP with Matplotlib and Plotly
9.2.
Visualizing the Top Domains’ SEO Performance with Plotly Express
10.
Taking Relevant Total Result Count per Top 10 Domains and Queries
10.1.
Taking Related Result Examples for Only One Domain
11.
How to Visualize Total Result Count per Domain for a Semantic Search Query Network?
11.1.
Filtering the SEO Performance Data for Visualization of Total Result Count Per Domain
11.2.
Visualization of Total Result Count Per Domain with Plotly
12.
Visualization of the Relevant Result Count for per Queries and Top 10 Domains with Plotly
13.
Visualization of Total Relevant Ranked Page Count per Domain
14.
Checking and Visualizing First Three Results for a Specific Domain with Pandas and Plotly
15.
Checking and Visualizing 4-10 Results for a Specific Domain with Pandas and Plotly
16.
Checking and Visualizing Rankings for Only One Domain
17.
Visualizing All Ranking Performance for Top 10 Domains with Colors and Bars
18.
Using Density Map for Organic Search Performance Comparison between Different Domains
19.
Visualization for All Domains via Treemap
20.
Visualization of Ranked Query Count for the Queries Per Domain as a Treemap
21.
Visualization of Total Results and Domain Coverage Side by Side
22.
Analysing the SERP Dimensions with Data Science in a Deeper Level
22.1.
Analyzing Title Tags on the SERP for Understanding Word and Ranking Correlations
22.2.
Extracting the Most Used Words in Titles with Counts and Rankings for the Top 10 Results
22.2.1.
Visualization of the Most Used Words in the Titles for the first 10 Results
22.2.2.
First 4 Words in the Title Tags according to Their Rankings
22.2.3.
Taking Frequencies of the Most Used Words in Titles with Their Rankings
22.2.4.
Visualization of the First Four Words in the Titles with their Rankings
22.3.
Extracting the Last Four Words in Titles and Their Rankings
22.3.1.
Visualization of Last Four Words in Titles and Ranking Correlations
23.
Used Words within Snippets without Stop Words and Ranking Relation
24.
Taking Word Counts and Rankings from Snippets
25.
Word Counts and Rankings Without Stop Words
26.
Extracting Numbers, Questions, Dates and Patterns from SERP
27.
Taking Dates from the Documents
27.1.
Document Age Visualization with SeaBorn Heatmap
27.2.
Changing the Document Age’s Format with Pandas
28.
Aggregating the Results’ Date and Checking Their Freshness Performance Correlation
28.1.
Uniting the Document Count and Average Ranking based on Dates
28.2.
Visualization of Snippet Count based on Dates on the Search Engine Results Page
28.3.
Visualization of Document Ages as Bar Chart with Plotly
29.
Visualization of the Dates of only First Three Results on the SERP
29.1.
Visualization of the Last Three Results as Bar Chart
30.
Comparing Freshness of Content for Competitors on the SERP with Data Aggregation (Healthline & WebMD)
30.1.
Visualization of the Competitors’ Content Count Based on Date with Plotly (Healthline & WebMD)
31.
Does the Snippet Have the Exact and Clear Answer?
31.1.
Comparing Rankings of the Results with Exact Answer in the Snippet and Answers without Exact Answer
32.
Extracting Questions on the SERP and Visualizing Their Rankings
32.1.
Visualization of the Questions on the Snippets with Heatmap
32.2.
Checking the Document Extensions in the SERP
32.3.
Comparing the Rankings of Documents Based on Extensions
32.3.1.
Visualization of the Document Extension Count in the SERP
32.4.
Checking the Sources, Queries and Rankings for Only PDF Files
33.
Crawling the Landing Pages on the SERP
33.1.
How to Unify SERP Data and Landing Page Data After Crawling the Pages on the SERP
34.
Examining the On-page Elements with SERP Data via Data Science for SEO
34.1.
Word Count for All Landing Pages on the SERP
34.2.
Comparing Words on the Documents based on Competitors (Healthline & WebMD)
34.3.
Removing Stop Words for Calculating the Count of Words and Frequencies of Words based on Competitors on the SERP
34.3.1.
Some Notes for Optional Text Analysing Methodologies
35.
Beyond Word Count or Word Frequency: Taking Entity Count, Entity Type, and Entity Profiles on the Content of Competitors on the SERP
35.1.
How to Take All Entities, Entity Type, Entity Count and Word Count for a Website from SERP?
35.2.
How to Print Entities of a Web Site’s Content
35.3.
How to Compare Entity Types and Counts of SEO Competitors with Data Science
35.3.1.
Extracting Entities of SEO Competitors for Organic Search Performance Comparison
35.4.
Taking the First Words of Landing Pages to Understand Competitors’ Content Strategy
36.
Internal Link Comparison of Competitors (Healthline & MyFitnessPal)
36.1.
Most Used Anchor Texts of Competitors on the SERP within Their Content
37.
Taking the Word Count per Result as “Total_Words” for Data Maniuplation
37.1.
Visualization of Total Word Count and Rankings per Domain, URL and Query
37.2.
Filtering Top 10 Domains and Their Rankings with Word Counts per Query
38.
Comparing Competitors’ Total Word Count from SERP based on Their Rankings (Healthline & MyFitnessPal)
38.1.
Healthline Ranking URLs and Total Word Count Based on Their Rankings
39.
Extracting Content Gap Between Competitors and Taking the Mutual Queries for Comparison
40.
Mutual Queries and Performance Comparison Between Healthline & MyFitnessPal
41.
Checking the Average Rank for the Two Domains for Mutual Queries
42.
A Quick Check for Organic Query Count for these URLs based on Total Word Count
42.1.
Extracting the Domain Names for Aggregating the Query (Keyword) Count
42.2.
Query Count and Average Total Words per URL Comparison for Healthline and MyFitnessPal
42.3.
Query Count and Total Average Total Words Count Per URL Comparison for All Sources
43.
Merging the Query Count DF and Crawl DF and SERP DF for a Better Comprehensive Look
44.
Visual Comparison of Total Query Count for Mutual Queries based on Healthline, MyFitnessPal by Including Other Competitors
45.
Which Schema Type is being Used by which Source at which Rank on the SERP?
46.
Top 10 Domain’s Schema Usage Comparison based on Ranks and Schema Type
47.
Examining the Response Latency and Ranking Relation on the SERP
48.
Averaging the Response Latency Based on Top 10 Sources on the SERP
49.
Visualization of Response Latency and SERP Situation for Top 10 Sources
50.
Visualization of Response Latency and SERP Situation for Top All Sources
51.
Examining the Response Size and Ranking Relation on the SERP
51.1.
Examining the Response Size and Ranking Relation for Top 10 Sources on the SERP
51.2.
Visualization of HTML Size and SERP Situation for All Sources
52.
Visualization of HTML Size and SERP Situation for Top 10 Sources
53.
Aggregating the Link-related Data for Top 10 Domain with SERP Information
54.
Referring Domain Count and Ranking Relation on the SERP for All Sources
55.
Total Backlink Count and Ranking Relation on the SERP For All Sources
56.
Domain Rating and Ranking Relation on the SERP for All Sources
57.
Total Backlink and Average Backlink Count Per URL and Source in a Data Frame
57.1.
Total Dofollow Domain Count and Dofollow Referring Domain Average Count Per Source in a Data Frame
58.
Taking Search Results According to Whether They Link a Domain or Not to See the Topical Authority and Domains’ Relevancy to Each Other
59.
Visual Comparison of Linking Sites for Healthline and MyFitnessPal on the SERP for the Target Queries
60.
Aggregating the Link Count on the Pages and Ranking Relation on the SERP for All Sources
61.
Aggregating the Link Count Based on Rank with “Between” Method and “Pivot Table”
62.
Average Link Count per Web Page from all Sources on the SERP
63.
Top 10 Domain’s Average Link Count Per Web Page on the SERP
64.
Average Link Count Based on Ranks on the SERP
65.
Best Top 10 Sources’ Average Link Count Per Web Page on Every Ranking in a Data Frame
66.
Visualization of Link Count and Ranking Relation for All Domains on the SERP
66.1.
Visualization of the Total Link Count per URL and Source for the Top 10 Domains
67.
Introduction to the Topical Search Engine: Restricting Entities for Certain “Relevancy” and “Source Categorization” on the SERP
67.1.
Restricting Results for Only a Schema Type
68.
Performing N-Gram Analysis for the Content and Phrase Patterns on the SERP based on Sources and Rankings
68.1.
Using Groupby for Aggregating the N-Grams based on Domain Names
69.
Count of Biagrams for SEO Competitors with Data Science
69.1.
Visualization of Biagrams per Source
70.
Last Thoughts on Data Science, Visualization and SEO with Python
70.1.
A Tribute to the Hamlet Batista for SEO, Data Science, Visualization and Python Intersection
Connecting to the Google Custom Search API (Programmable Search Engine API)
To connect the Google Custom Search API and retrieve Google Search Results with Python, you need two things.
Google Developer Console Account
Custom Search API Key
Custom Search Engine ID.
Below, you will see the section where you can create and copy a Custom Search API Key from Google Developer Console.
Custom Search API Key.
Below, you will see how you can create and find custom Search Engine ID.
Note: I recommend you to not change any kind of settings in your Custom Search Engine, it might affect the results that we will get via Python’s Advertools Package from Google.
Using Google Custom Search API via Advertools to Retrieve the SERP Data
To use Google’s Custom Search API via Advertools, you will need to write three lines of code as below.
import advertools as adv
api_key, cse_id = "YOUR API KEY", "YOUR CSE ID"
adv.serp_goog(key=api_key, cx=cse_id, q="Example Query", gl=["example country code"])
With these three lines of code, you can connect to Google Custom Search API, use a custom search engine, and retrieve search engine results page data from Google.  Below, you will see a live example:
Retrieving Google Search Results Example
Retrieving the Search Engine Results Pages with Regular Periods with Python
To take the Google Search Engine’s Result Pages with regular periods, you will need a timer. In Python, there are diff

[...truncated...]
