What is a Web Server: Definition, Example, Usage, and Overload - Holistic SEO
Skip to content
A web server contains all the elements of a website such as an HTML document, CSS, JS, images, and font files along with the content of the web page along with web page names which are the URL of the specific web page. A web server can refer to two different parts of it. The first type of web server is the hardware. A web server can store all of the elements of a website within physical data as a computer. A web server’s second side is the software. A web server has software to serve all of the requested files and components to the user via a web browser. The software side of a web server uses the HTTP Server for the resolution of the URL, domain names, and Domain Name Servers.
Contents of the Article
show
1.
How does a Web Server Work?
2.
What are the types of a web server?
3.
How to Host Files within a Web Server?
3.1.
What are the benefits of using a dedicated web server?
4.
What is the role of HTTP for a web server?
5.
What are the benefits of HTTP for a web server?
6.
What is the webserver software?
7.
What are the webserver security issues?
8.
What are the basic components of a web server?
9.
What is path translation for a web server?
10.
How does a web server affect the web page speed?
11.
What are the load limits for a web server?
11.1.
What are the causes of overload for a web server?
12.
What are the symptoms of overload for a web server?
13.
What are the market shares for a web server?
14.
What is the importance of a web server for a website?
15.
What is the relation between a Web Server and a Web Browser?
15.1.
What is the relation between a Domain Name System and a Web Server?
15.1.1.
What is the relation between an IP Address and a Web Server?
15.1.2.
What is the Relation between a User-agent and A Web Server?
16.
Why are HTTP Status Codes important for a Web Server?
17.
What is the Web Server Logs’ prominence for a Web Server?
18.
Last Thoughts on Web Server and Holistic SEO
How does a Web Server Work?
The working principle of a web server is as below.
A user requests a web page from the web server via a web browser.
Web browser makes a request based on HTTP Server.
Web server finds the correct data from the hardware of the web server.
With the help of the HTTP server, the requested file is sent to the user.
If the requested file doesn’t exist within the hardware of web server, HTTP server will give the 404 response code.
What are the types of a web server?
There are two types of web servers. The types of web servers are Static Web Server and Dynamic Web Server. Explanations of the static and dynamic web server can be found below.
Static Web Server
: A static web server involves hardware and software to send the files to the requestor via its user-agent. It is called static because it just sends the files that are hosted.
Dynamic Web Server
: A dynamic web server has a database and application server to change the requested hosted files based on the URL via HTTP Server.
A dynamic web server uses a template engine to render the requested HTML Document with the requested content. For instance,  a final web page can be created based on the specifically determined content for it with the help of a database that stores the content of the web page. A static web server and dynamic web server are related to server-side rendering and client-side rendering. The rendering methodology of the web page can affect the web page loading performance, user-centric metrics, and search engine optimization performance.
How to Host Files within a Web Server?
To host files within a web server, the HTML Documents that include the web pages, and their URLs along with the resources of the web pages’ such as CSS stylesheets, JavaScript files, font files and videos, images, and other multimedia files should be uploaded to the host server. A simple computer can be used as a web server as long as it is able to store the HTML Documents and their assets and being able to respond to the users’ requests for these files. Using a personal computer as a web server is not a convenient practice since it will consume the CPU and storage of the computer while making the internet connection tired. To make the website faster, a dedicated web server should be used.
What are the benefits of using a dedicated web server?
The benefits of using a dedicated web server are below.
The downtime of the dedicated web server is higher than a personal computer as a web server.
System troubles such as outdated software, or security breaches are not common among the dedicated web servers.
A dedicated web server has a dedicated IP which makes the DNS Resolution faster.
A dedicated web server has a support team to solve the technical problems for the website owners.
Due to the advantages of using a dedicated web server, the hosting server industry grows every year. The hosting web server industry market size is determined as 57 billion dollars for 2019. Every year the dedicated web server market grows between 15% and 20%.
What is the role of HTTP for a web server?
The role of the HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) is to determine how a linked document will be transferred between two computers. A web browser can make a request to a web server to transfer a linked document with its assets. The HTTP arranges the communication between the web server and the web browser. HTTP is a protocol to determine the rules of the communication between computers for transferring website files. There are two important features of HTTP, it is stateless and textual.
HTTP is stateless because an HTTP sever can’t remember the password that a user typed, or the unfinished task of the user. Thus, an application server and database are must to make things more smooth and usable for the users.
HTTP is textual because all of the commands are human-readbel and plain-text.
What are the benefits of HTTP for a web server?
The benefits of HTTP for a web server can be found below.
An HTTP server arranges the communication between the web user and the webserver with the HTTP Status Codes. An HTTP Status Code represents the web server’s response to the web browser for a specific website asset such as an image, or CSS stylesheet.
HTTP standardized the requests and the responses between the computers so that the communication between web servers can be faster.
HTTP has standard protocols to help web developers for making coding and programming easier.
HTTP server has to answer all of the requests, even it is an error message.
HTTP makes the internet usage faster.
HTTP server checks whether the requested file exists within the server or not.
HTTP server has a cache hierarchy to provide a better response time to the requestor.
What is the webserver software?
A web server software is an HTTP software that manages the requests and the responses based on protocol rules. Besides HTTP, a web server can use SMTP, FTP for email sending and answering along with file transfer. A web server software is structured based on the client/server model. The web server software examples are listed below.
Apache HTTP Server: Apache Software Foundation developed Apache HTTP Server for devices with Microsoft, Mac OS X, Solaris, and Linux. To use the Apache HTTP Server, the Apache license is required.
Nginx: Nginx is open-source web server software. Nginx has advantages against HTTP in terms of synchronous concurrent request handling and caching load balancing and proxy server usage.
Lighttpd: Lighttpd is a web server with FreeBSD Operation System. It consumes less CPU when compared to Apache HTTP and Nginx, thus it is called “Lighttpd.”
Sun Java System Web Server: Sun Java System Web Server is developed by Sun Microsystems for Windows, Unix and Linux. It is good for medium and large websites.
A website’s web server type can affect the file transfer speed, cache efficiency, and response times. Configuring a website properly, and structuring the database query system is important for better TCP Slow start and Round Trip Time.
What are the webserver security issues?
The web server security issues and possible vulnerabilities affect the website’s response capacity, speed, and security of the users’ private data. The webserver security issues can be caused because of the outdated libraries, scripts, and software along with the not using the server security response headers. The most common web server security issues are listed below.
SQL Injections: SQL Injection is a webserver security vulnerability that lets the atacker access to the corrupted database.
Cross-site Scripting: Cross-site Scripting is to manipulate the Client-side rendered JavaScript documents to take data of the user.
Broken Authentication and Session Management: Broken Authentication is to seize the session information of the user to identify him.
Insecure Direct Object References: Insecurre Direct Object Reference is to access to the internal implementation objects include the files that can show the data of the users.
Security Misconfiguration: Security Misconfiguration is the lackness of maintanence and updates of the web server. It can provide access to the private information for ahckers.
Cross-site Request Forgery: Cross-site Reuqest Forgery is to perform a request within the users’ browser for another website that the same user uses. CSRF can be used to seize the highly valuable login information of the users. Thus, a webserver should use the Content-security Policy to prevent such a web server security vulnerability.
The webserver security issues are critical for protecting the users’ private data and wealth. Thus, a search engine can use the webserver security issues for evaluating a website, especially if it provides commercial activities. To learn more about the webserver security issues and security-related response headers, you can read the guidelines below.
Content Security Policy Response Header
What are the basic components of a web server?
The components of a web server are to make a web server functional with the minimum level of need. The components of a web server are listed below.
Physical hardware: it is to store the data and response the requests.
Internet connection: it is to make the website reachable.
Operating System: The web server will operate based on a operation system such as Windows, Mac, Linux and Unix.
Data Base: The data will be stored based on the database type suchas MongoDB, GraphiQL and MySQL.
Web Server Software with a Scripting Language: it is to make the web server software such as Apache, PHP and Nginx, NodeJS.
The web server components created some abbreviations such as LAMP means Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP. Another web server component combination is WAMP stands for Windows, APAche MYSQL, PHP. MAMP as a web server component variation stands for Mac, Apache, MySQL, PHP. With Single Page Applications, the MERN increased its popularity which stands for MongoDB, Express, React, and NodeJS.
What is path translation for a web server?
The path translation for a web server is to resolve the targeted URL that the user requested. Path translation is done on the server-side for finding the requested file. A local file system can perform external and internal file requests via path translation. The web server needs to perform path translation to respond to the web browser to present the requested URL. Below, an example of path translation and resolve with NodeJS can be found.
path.basename('/example/path/translation/path-resolve.html');
// Returns: 'path-resolve.html'
path.basename('
/example/path/translation/path-resolve.html', '.html');
// Returns: 'quux'
The path translation includes uniting the requested path with the name of the host by the webserver. Based on the software of the webserver, the path translation will require different timing, and chained script functions.
How does a web server affect the web page speed?
A web server affects the web page loading performance (page speed) by serving the web pages from the server’s database in a positive or negative way. The Time to First Byte represents the web server’s effect on the web page speed.
Time to First Byte
is the timing of the first byte that is received from the server during the loading of a web page. A web server can be improved to provide a faster web page loading performance by optimizing the web server hardware and software such as the MySQL Database, server query chain, and SSD, RAM, CPU needs of the webserver. Location of the webserver is another factor that affects the page speed, thus a CDN with multiple locations is useful to provide faster time to the first byte if the targeted audience of the website is multiregional.
What are the load limits for a web server?
The load limit of the webserver involves the maximum and a minimum number of concurrent connections that an IP address can create. TCP Slow Start is a related term to the web server’s load limit because it protects the web servers from crashing while trying to answer the connections requests. A load limit can be between 1 and 80.000 per IP Address. A web server overload can cause a web server to disfunction. Web server quality and health are prominent for Search Engine Optimization and Digital Marketing. A web server that is overloaded can damage the brand prestige, and cause profit loss. A web server that is overloaded can cause a web search engine crawler to not be able to see the content on the web page, and it can harm the rankings of the website. A web server is important to provide a user-friendly web page loading performance to increase the conversion rate while decreasing the bounce rate within a web user session.
What are the causes of overload for a web server?
There are some common problems that can cause a web server to be overloaded.
Excess amount of web traffic: A webserver overload can happen due to the excessive amount of traffic from the web. If the web traffic count is higher than the server’s 

[...truncated...]